










The Wonderful Wizard of Oz


by

L. Frank Baum

 Contents

       Introduction
   1.  The Cyclone
   4.  The Road Through the Forest
   5.  The Rescue of the Tin Woodman
   6.  The Cowardly Lion
   7.  The Journey to the Great Oz
   8.  The Deadly Poppy Field
  12.  The Search for the Wicked Witch
  13.  The Rescue
  15.  The Discovery of Oz the Terrible
  16.  The Magic Art of the Great Humbug
  17.  How the Balloon Was Launched
  19.  Attacked by the Fighting Trees
  20.  The Dainty China Country
  21.  The Lion Becomes the King of Beasts
  22.  The Country of the Quadlings
  23.  Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy's Wish
  24.  Home Again



Folklore, legends, myths and fairy tales have followed childhood
through the ages, for every healthy youngster has a wholesome and
happiness to childish hearts than all other human creations.

Yet the old time fairy tale, having served for generations, may now be
classed as "historical" in the children's library; for the time has
come for a series of newer "wonder tales" in which the stereotyped
genie, dwarf and fairy are eliminated, together with all the horrible
and blood-curdling incidents devised by their authors to point a
fearsome moral to each tale.  Modern education includes morality;
and gladly dispenses with all disagreeable incident.
Having this thought in mind, the story of "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz"
was written solely to please children of today.  It aspires to being a
modernized fairy tale, in which the wonderment and joy are retained and
the heartaches and nightmares are left out.


L. Frank Baum
Chicago, April, 1900.




THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ




1.  The Cyclone


Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with Uncle
Henry, who was a farmer, and Aunt Em, who was the farmer's wife.  Their
house was small, for the lumber to build it had to be carried by wagon
many miles.  There were four walls, a floor and a roof, which made one
and Aunt Em had a big bed in one corner, and Dorothy a little bed in
small hole dug in the ground, called a cyclone cellar, where the family
could go in case one of those great whirlwinds arose, mighty enough to
crush any building in its path.  It was reached by a trap door in the
middle of the floor, from which a ladder led down into the small, dark

When Dorothy stood in the doorway and looked around, she could see
nothing but the great gray prairie on every side.  Not a tree nor a
gray mass, with little cracks running through it.  Even the grass was
not green, for the sun had burned the tops of the long blades until

When Aunt Em came there to live she was a young, pretty wife.  The sun
eyes and left them a sober gray; they had taken the red from her cheeks
and lips, and they were gray also.  She was thin and gaunt, and never
smiled now.  When Dorothy, who was an orphan, first came to her, Aunt
reached her ears; and she still looked at the little girl with wonder
Uncle Henry never laughed.  He worked hard from morning till night and
did not know what joy was.  He was gray also, from his long beard to
his rough boots, and he looked stern and solemn, and rarely spoke.

It was Toto that made Dorothy laugh, and saved her from growing as gray
as her other surroundings.  Toto was not gray; he was a little black
either side of his funny, wee nose.  Toto played all day long, and
Dorothy played with him, and loved him dearly.

Today, however, they were not playing.  Uncle Henry sat upon the
doorstep and looked anxiously at the sky, which was even grayer than
usual.  Dorothy stood in the door with Toto in her arms, and looked at

From the far north they heard a low wail of the wind, and Uncle Henry
coming storm.  There now came a sharp whistling in the air from the
grass coming from that direction also.

Suddenly Uncle Henry stood up.

"There's a cyclone coming, Em," he called to his wife.  "I'll go look
after the stock."  Then he ran toward the sheds where the cows and

Aunt Em dropped her work and came to the door.  One glance told her of
the danger close at hand.
started to get him.  Aunt Em, badly frightened, threw open the trap
door in the floor and climbed down the ladder into the small, dark
wind, and the house shook so hard that she lost her footing and sat
down suddenly upon the floor.

Then a strange thing happened.
The house whirled around two or three times and rose slowly through the
air.  Dorothy felt as if she were going up in a balloon.
The north and south winds met where the house stood, and made it the
exact center of the cyclone.  In the middle of a cyclone the air is
generally still, but the great pressure of the wind on every side of
the house raised it up higher and higher, until it was at the very top
of the cyclone; and there it remained and was carried miles and miles
away as easily as you could carry a feather.

found she was riding quite easily.  After the first few whirls around,
and one other time when the house tipped badly, she felt as if she were
being rocked gently, like a baby in a cradle.

barking loudly; but Dorothy sat quite still on the floor and waited to
see what would happen.
the little girl thought she had lost him.  But soon she saw one of his

Hour after hour passed away, and slowly Dorothy got over her fright;
but she felt quite lonely, and the wind shrieked so loudly all about
her that she nearly became deaf.  At first she had wondered if she
passed and nothing terrible happened, she stopped worrying and resolved
to wait calmly and see what the future would bring.  At last she
Toto followed and lay down beside her.
Dorothy soon closed her eyes and fell fast asleep.



2.  The Council with the Munchkins

not been lying on the soft bed she might have been hurt.  As it was,
the jar made her catch her breath and wonder what had happened; and
Toto put his cold little nose into her face and whined dismally.
and opened the door.

The little girl gave a cry of amazement and looked about her, her eyes
growing bigger and bigger at the wonderful sights she saw.

midst of a country of marvelous beauty.  There were lovely patches of
greensward all about, with stately trees bearing rich and luscious
fruits.  Banks of gorgeous flowers were on every hand, and birds with
A little way off was a small brook, rushing and sparkling along between
green banks, and murmuring in a voice very grateful to a little girl

they were, so far as looks go, many years older.

Three were men and one a woman, and all were oddly dressed.  They wore
wore a white gown that hung in pleats from her shoulders.  Over it were
sprinkled little stars that glistened in the sun like diamonds.  The
men were dressed in blue, of the same shade as their hats, and wore
well-polished boots with a deep roll of blue at the tops.  The men,
Dorothy thought, were about as old as Uncle Henry, for two of them had
beards.  But the little woman was doubtless much older.  Her face was
covered with wrinkles, her hair was nearly white, and she walked rather
stiffly.
When these people drew near the house where Dorothy was standing in the
doorway, they paused and whispered among themselves, as if afraid to
come farther.  But the little old woman walked up to Dorothy, made a
low bow and said, in a sweet voice:
"You are welcome, most noble Sorceress, to the land of the Munchkins.
We are so grateful to you for having killed the Wicked Witch of the
East, and for setting our people free from bondage."

Dorothy listened to this speech with wonder.  What could the little
woman possibly mean by calling her a sorceress, and saying she had
killed the Wicked Witch of the East?  Dorothy was an innocent, harmless
little girl, who had been carried by a cyclone many miles from home;
and she had never killed anything in all her life.


"Your house did, anyway," replied the little old woman, with a laugh,
"and that is the same thing.  See!" she continued, pointing to the
under a block of wood."
Dorothy looked, and gave a little cry of fright.  There, indeed, just
under the corner of the great beam the house rested on, two feet were
sticking out, shod in silver shoes with pointed toes.




"She was the Wicked Witch of the East, as I said," answered the little
woman.  "She has held all the Munchkins in bondage for many years,
and are grateful to you for the favor."


 where the Wicked Witch ruled."

"Are you a Munchkin?" asked Dorothy.
"No, but I am their friend, although I live in the land of the North.

the people love me.  I am not as powerful as the Wicked Witch was who
ruled here, or I should have set the people free myself."

"But I thought all witches were wicked," said the girl, who was half
frightened at facing a real witch.  "Oh, no, that is a great mistake.
those who live in the North and the South, are good witches.  I know
Those who dwelt in the East and the West were, indeed, wicked witches;
but now that you have killed one of them, there is but one Wicked Witch
in all the Land of Oz--the one who lives in the West."

"But," said Dorothy, after a moment's thought, "Aunt Em has told me
that the witches were all dead--years and years ago."
"She is my aunt who lives in Kansas, where I came from."

and her eyes upon the ground.  Then she looked up and said, "I do not
know where Kansas is, for I have never heard that country mentioned
before.  But tell me, is it a civilized country?"
"Oh, yes," replied Dorothy.


to a whisper.  "He is more powerful than all the rest of us together.
He lives in the City of Emeralds."

who had been standing silently by, gave a loud shout and pointed to the
corner of the house where the Wicked Witch had been lying.
nothing was left but the silver shoes.

yours, and you shall have them to wear." She reached down and picked up
Dorothy.
the Munchkins, "and there is some charm connected with them; but what
it is we never knew."

Then she came out again to the Munchkins and said:

"I am anxious to get back to my aunt and uncle, for I am sure they will
Dorothy, and then shook their heads.

and none could live to cross it."

"It is the same at the South," said another, "for I have been there and
seen it.  The South is the country of the Quadlings."

that country, where the Winkies live, is ruled by the Wicked Witch of
the West, who would make you her slave if you passed her way."

"The North is my home," said the old lady, "and at its edge is the same
will have to live with us."

Dorothy began to sob at this, for she felt lonely among all these
in a solemn voice.  At once the cap changed to a slate, on which was
written in big, white chalk marks:



The little old woman took the slate from her nose, and having read the

"Yes," answered the child, looking up and drying her tears.

"Where is this city?" asked Dorothy.

"He is a good Wizard.  Whether he is a man or not I cannot tell, for I
have never seen him."

"How can I get there?" asked Dorothy.

"You must walk.  It is a long journey, through a country that is
sometimes pleasant and sometimes dark and terrible.  However, I will

"Won't you go with me?" pleaded the girl, who had begun to look upon
the little old woman as her only friend.

"No, I cannot do that," she replied, "but I will give you my kiss, and
no one will dare injure a person who has been kissed by the Witch of
the North."

She came close to Dorothy and kissed her gently on the forehead.  Where

"The road to the City of Emeralds is paved with yellow brick," said the
Witch, "so you cannot miss it.  When you get to Oz do not be afraid of
The three Munchkins bowed low to her and wished her a pleasant journey,
after which they walked away through the trees.  The Witch gave Dorothy
a friendly little nod, whirled around on her left heel three times, and
straightway disappeared, much to the surprise of little Toto, who
barked after her loudly enough when she had gone, because he had been

But Dorothy, knowing her to be a witch, had expected her to disappear
in just that way, and was not surprised in the least.

3.  How Dorothy Saved the Scarecrow


When Dorothy was left alone she began to feel hungry.  So she went to
down to the little brook and filled it with clear, sparkling water.
there.  Dorothy went to get him, and saw such delicious fruit hanging
from the branches that she gathered some of it, finding it just what
she wanted to help out her breakfast.

Then she went back to the house, and having helped herself and Toto to
the journey to the City of Emeralds.

hanging on a peg beside her bed.  It was gingham, with checks of white
and blue; and although the blue was somewhat faded with many washings,
it was still a pretty frock.  The girl washed herself carefully,
cupboard, laying a white cloth over the top.  Then she looked down at
her feet and noticed how old and worn her shoes were.

Toto looked up into her face with his little black eyes and wagged his
tail to show he knew what she meant.

At that moment Dorothy saw lying on the table the silver shoes that had
"I wonder if they will fit me," she said to Toto.  "They would be just
the thing to take a long walk in, for they could not wear out."
She took off her old leather shoes and tried on the silver ones, which
fitted her as well as if they had been made for her.
Finally she picked up her basket.


She closed the door, locked it, and put the key carefully in the pocket
of her dress.  And so, with Toto trotting along soberly behind her, she
started on her journey.

the one paved with yellow bricks.  Within a short time she was walking
briskly toward the Emerald City, her silver shoes tinkling merrily on
the hard, yellow road-bed.  The sun shone bright and the birds sang
sweetly, and Dorothy did not feel nearly so bad as you might think a
country and set down in the midst of a strange land.

She was surprised, as she walked along, to see how pretty the country
was about her.  There were neat fences at the sides of the road,
painted a dainty blue color, and beyond them were fields of grain and
vegetables in abundance.  Evidently the Munchkins were good farmers and
able to raise large crops.  Once in a while she would pass a house, and
the people came out to look at her and bow low as she went by; for
setting them free from bondage.  The houses of the Munchkins were
favorite color.

Toward evening, when Dorothy was tired with her long walk and began to
larger than the rest.  On the green lawn before it many men and women
were dancing.  Five little fiddlers played as loudly as possible, and
loaded with delicious fruits and nuts, pies and cakes, and many other

The people greeted Dorothy kindly, and invited her to supper and to
pass the night with them; for this was the home of one of the richest

Dorothy ate a hearty supper and was waited upon by the rich Munchkin
the people dance.

When Boq saw her silver shoes he said, "You must be a great sorceress."

"Because you wear silver shoes and have killed the Wicked Witch.
Besides, you have white in your frock, and only witches and sorceresses
wear white."

"My dress is blue and white checked," said Dorothy, smoothing out the
"It is kind of you to wear that," said Boq.  "Blue is the color of the
witch."

think her a witch, and she knew very well she was only an ordinary

When she had tired watching the dancing, Boq led her into the house,
Toto curled up on the blue rug beside her.

She ate a hearty breakfast, and watched a wee Munchkin baby, who played
with Toto and pulled his tail and crowed and laughed in a way that
greatly amused Dorothy.  Toto was a fine curiosity to all the people,

"How far is it to the Emerald City?" the girl asked.
"I do not know," answered Boq gravely, "for I have never been there.
It is better for people to keep away from Oz, unless they have business
you many days.  The country here is rich and pleasant, but you must
pass through rough and dangerous places before you reach the end of
could help her get to Kansas again, so she bravely resolved not to turn

yellow brick.  When she had gone several miles she thought she would

Scarecrow.  Its head was a small sack stuffed with straw, with eyes,
nose, and mouth painted on it to represent a face.  An old, pointed
blue hat, that had belonged to some Munchkin, was perched on his head,
and the rest of the figure was a blue suit of clothes, worn and faded,
which had also been stuffed with straw.  On the feet were some old
figure was raised above the stalks of corn by means of the pole stuck

Scarecrow, she was surprised to see one of the eyes slowly wink at her.
She thought she must have been mistaken at first, for none of the
scarecrows in Kansas ever wink; but presently the figure nodded its
and walked up to it, while Toto ran around the pole and barked.
"Good day," said the Scarecrow, in a rather husky voice.
"Certainly," answered the Scarecrow.  "How do you do?"
do?"

"I'm not feeling well," said the Scarecrow, with a smile, "for it is
"Can't you get down?" asked Dorothy.

"No, for this pole is stuck up my back.  If you will please take away
the pole I shall be greatly obliged to you."

Dorothy reached up both arms and lifted the figure off the pole, for,
being stuffed with straw, it was quite light.

the ground.  "I feel like a new man."
Dorothy was puzzled at this, for it sounded queer to hear a stuffed man
speak, and to see him bow and walk along beside her.

yawned.  "And where are you going?"

"Where is the Emerald City?" he inquired.  "And who is Oz?"

"Why, don't you know?" she returned, in surprise.

no brains at all," he answered sadly.


"I cannot tell," she returned, "but you may come with me, if you like.

"That is true," said the Scarecrow.  "You see," he continued
instead of with brains, as yours is, how am I ever to know anything?"

"I understand how you feel," said the little girl, who was truly sorry
you."


They walked back to the road.  Dorothy helped him over the fence, and
they started along the path of yellow brick for the Emerald City.

around the stuffed man as if he suspected there might be a nest of rats
in the straw, and he often growled in an unfriendly way at the

"Don't mind Toto," said Dorothy to her new friend.  "He never bites."

"Oh, I'm not afraid," replied the Scarecrow.  "He can't hurt the straw.
Do let me carry that basket for you.  I shall not mind it, for I can't
get tired.  I'll tell you a secret," he continued, as he walked along.
"What is that?" asked Dorothy; "the Munchkin farmer who made you?"



After a few hours the road began to be rough, and the walking grew so
difficult that the Scarecrow often stumbled over the yellow bricks,
walked around.  As for the Scarecrow, having no brains, he walked
straight ahead, and so stepped into the holes and fell at full length
merrily at his own mishap.
The farms were not nearly so well cared for here as they were farther
back.  There were fewer houses and fewer fruit trees, and the farther
they went the more dismal and lonesome the country became.
At noon they sat down by the roadside, near a little brook, and Dorothy
opened her basket and got out some bread.  She offered a piece to the
Scarecrow, but he refused.
"I am never hungry," he said, "and it is a lucky thing I am not, for my
Dorothy saw at once that this was true, so she only nodded and went on
"Tell me something about yourself and the country you came from," said
about Kansas, and how gray everything was there, and how the cyclone
had carried her to this queer Land of Oz.

The Scarecrow listened carefully, and said, "I cannot understand why
you should wish to leave this beautiful country and go back to the dry,

"That is because you have no brains" answered the girl.  "No matter how
dreary and gray our homes are, we people of flesh and blood would
rather live there than in any other country, be it ever so beautiful.


"Of course I cannot understand it," he said.  "If your heads were
beautiful places, and then Kansas would have no people at all.  It is
"Won't you tell me a story, while we are resting?" asked the child.


"My life has been so short that I really know nothing whatever.  I was
only made day before yesterday.  What happened in the world before that
of the first things he did was to paint my ears, so that I heard what
was going on.  There was another Munchkin with him, and the first thing

"'They aren't straight,'" answered the other.

"'Never mind,'" said the farmer.  "'They are ears just the same,'"
which was true enough.

"'Now I'll make the eyes,'" said the farmer.  So he painted my right
eye, and as soon as it was finished I found myself looking at him and
at everything around me with a great deal of curiosity, for this was my

"'That's a rather pretty eye,'" remarked the Munchkin who was watching
the farmer.  "'Blue paint is just the color for eyes.'

when the second eye was done I could see much better than before.  Then
he made my nose and my mouth.  But I did not speak, because at that
time I didn't know what a mouth was for.  I had the fun of watching
them make my body and my arms and legs; and when they fastened on my
man as anyone.


tall stick, where you found me.  He and his friend soon after walked
away and left me alone.

"I did not like to be deserted this way.  So I tried to walk after
them.  But my feet would not touch the ground, and I was forced to stay
on that pole.  It was a lonely life to lead, for I had nothing to think
of, having been made such a little while before.  Many crows and other
birds flew into the cornfield, but as soon as they saw me they flew
away again, thinking I was a Munchkin; and this pleased me and made me
feel that I was quite an important person.  By and by an old crow flew
near me, and after looking at me carefully he perched upon my shoulder
and said:

Any crow of sense could see that you are only stuffed with straw.'
other birds, seeing he was not harmed by me, came to eat the corn too,
so in a short time there was a great flock of them about me.

"I felt sad at this, for it showed I was not such a good Scarecrow
after all; but the old crow comforted me, saying, 'If you only had
brains in your head you would be as good a man as any of them, and a
better man than some of them.  Brains are the only things worth having
in this world, no matter whether one is a crow or a man.'
"After the crows had gone I thought this over, and decided I would try
the stake, and from what you say I am sure the Great Oz will give me
brains as soon as we get to the Emerald City."
"I hope so," said Dorothy earnestly, "since you seem anxious to have
them."

"Oh, yes; I am anxious," returned the Scarecrow.  "It is such an
uncomfortable feeling to know one is a fool."

Scarecrow.

There were no fences at all by the roadside now, and the land was rough
and untilled.  Toward evening they came to a great forest, where the
trees grew so big and close together that their branches met over the
road of yellow brick.  It was almost dark under the trees, for the
went on into the forest.

the Emerald City is at the other end of the road, we must go wherever

"Anyone would know that," said Dorothy.

required brains to figure it out, I never should have said it."

After an hour or so the light faded away, and they found themselves
stumbling along in the darkness.  Dorothy could not see at all, but
Toto could, for some dogs see very well in the dark; and the Scarecrow

Soon after the Scarecrow stopped.
"Yes, indeed," answered the child.  "I am all tired out."

So the Scarecrow led her through the trees until they reached the
cottage, and Dorothy entered and found a bed of dried leaves in one
corner and waited patiently until morning came.

5.  The Rescue of the Tin Woodman
long been out chasing birds around him and squirrels.  She sat up and
waiting for her.
"We must go and search for water," she said to him.

"To wash my face clean after the dust of the road, and to drink, so the
dry bread will not stick in my throat."
"It must be inconvenient to be made of flesh," said the Scarecrow
thoughtfully, "for you must sleep, and eat and drink.  However, you
They left the cottage and walked through the trees until they found a
her breakfast.  She saw there was not much bread left in the basket,
for there was scarcely enough for herself and Toto for the day.
When she had finished her meal, and was about to go back to the road of
yellow brick, she was startled to hear a deep groan near by.
"What was that?" she asked timidly.


come from behind them.  They turned and walked through the forest a few
steps, when Dorothy discovered something shining in a ray of sunshine
One of the big trees had been partly chopped through, and standing
beside it, with an uplifted axe in his hands, was a man made entirely
of tin.  His head and arms and legs were jointed upon his body, but he

Toto barked sharply and made a snap at the tin legs, which hurt his
teeth.


sad voice in which the man spoke.
"Get an oil-can and oil my joints," he answered.  "They are rusted so
badly that I cannot move them at all; if I am well oiled I shall soon
be all right again.  You will find an oil-can on a shelf in my cottage."

Dorothy at once ran back to the cottage and found the oil-can, and then

"Oil my neck, first," replied the Tin Woodman.  So she oiled it, and as
it was quite badly rusted the Scarecrow took hold of the tin head and
moved it gently from side to side until it worked freely, and then the
man could turn it himself.

the Scarecrow bent them carefully until they were quite free from rust

The Tin Woodman gave a sigh of satisfaction and lowered his axe, which

"This is a great comfort," he said.  "I have been holding that axe in
the air ever since I rusted, and I'm glad to be able to put it down at
once more."

them again and again for his release, for he seemed a very polite
creature, and very grateful.


answered, "and we stopped at your cottage to pass the night."
"Why do you wish to see Oz?" he asked.

"I want him to send me back to Kansas, and the Scarecrow wants him to

The Tin Woodman appeared to think deeply for a moment.  Then he said:
"Do you suppose Oz could give me a heart?"

"Why, I guess so," Dorothy answered.  "It would be as easy as to give
the Scarecrow brains."

"True," the Tin Woodman returned.  "So, if you will allow me to join
your party, I will also go to the Emerald City and ask Oz to help me."
would be pleased to have his company.  So the Tin Woodman shouldered
his axe and they all passed through the forest until they came to the
road that was paved with yellow brick.
"For," he said, "if I should get caught in the rain, and rust again, I

soon after they had begun their journey again they came to a place
travelers could not pass.  But the Tin Woodman set to work with his axe
and chopped so well that soon he cleared a passage for the entire party.
Dorothy was thinking so earnestly as they walked along that she did not
notice when the Scarecrow stumbled into a hole and rolled over to the
side of the road.  Indeed he was obliged to call to her to help him up
again.

"Why didn't you walk around the hole?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"I don't know enough," replied the Scarecrow cheerfully.  "My head is
him for some brains."
"Oh, I see," said the Tin Woodman.  "But, after all, brains are not the
best things in the world."
"No, my head is quite empty," answered the Woodman.  "But once I had



So, while they were walking through the forest, the Tin Woodman told
the following story:

and sold the wood for a living.  When I grew up, I too became a
woodchopper, and after my father died I took care of my old mother as
long as she lived.  Then I made up my mind that instead of living alone

grew to love her with all my heart.  She, on her part, promised to
marry me as soon as I could earn enough money to build a better house
for her; so I set to work harder than ever.  But the girl lived with an
wished the girl to remain with her and do the cooking and the
housework.  So the old woman went to the Wicked Witch of the East, and
promised her two sheep and a cow if she would prevent the marriage.
Thereupon the Wicked Witch enchanted my axe, and when I was chopping
away at my best one day, for I was anxious to get the new house and my
"This at first seemed a great misfortune, for I knew a one-legged man
had him make me a new leg out of tin.  The leg worked very well, once I
was used to it.  But my action angered the Wicked Witch of the East,
my right leg.  Again I went to the tinsmith, and again he made me a leg
out of tin.  After this the enchanted axe cut off my arms, one after
the other; but, nothing daunted, I had them replaced with tin ones.
The Wicked Witch then made the axe slip and cut off my head, and at
first I thought that was the end of me.  But the tinsmith happened to
"I thought I had beaten the Wicked Witch then, and I worked harder than
ever; but I little knew how cruel my enemy could be.  She thought of a
new way to kill my love for the beautiful Munchkin maiden, and made my
axe slip again, so that it cut right through my body, splitting me into
two halves.  Once more the tinsmith came to my help and made me a body
joints, so that I could move around as well as ever.  But, alas!  I had
now no heart, so that I lost all my love for the Munchkin girl, and did
with the old woman, waiting for me to come after her.
"My body shone so brightly in the sun that I felt very proud of it and
There was only one danger--that my joints would rust; but I kept an
oil-can in my cottage and took care to oil myself whenever I needed it.
and I was left to stand in the woods until you came to help me.  It was
a terrible thing to undergo, but during the year I stood there I had
time to think that the greatest loss I had known was the loss of my
heart.  While I was in love I was the happiest man on earth; but no one
can love who has not a heart, and so I am resolved to ask Oz to give me
Both Dorothy and the Scarecrow had been greatly interested in the story
of the Tin Woodman, and now they knew why he was so anxious to get a

"All the same," said the Scarecrow, "I shall ask for brains instead of
make one happy, and happiness is the best thing in the world."
Dorothy did not say anything, for she was puzzled to know which of her
two friends was right, and she decided if she could only get back to
Kansas and Aunt Em, it did not matter so much whether the Woodman had
no brains and the Scarecrow no heart, or each got what he wanted.

What worried her most was that the bread was nearly gone, and another
the Woodman nor the Scarecrow ever ate anything, but she was not made
of tin nor straw, and could not live unless she was fed.






were much covered by dried branches and dead leaves from the trees, and
the walking was not at all good.

There were few birds in this part of the forest, for birds love the
came a deep growl from some wild animal hidden among the trees.  These
sounds made the little girl's heart beat fast, for she did not know
and did not even bark in return.
are out of the forest?"

City.  But my father went there once, when I was a boy, and he said it
was a long journey through a dangerous country, although nearer to the
city where Oz dwells the country is beautiful.  But I am not afraid so
long as I have my oil-can, and nothing can hurt the Scarecrow, while
you bear upon your forehead the mark of the Good Witch's kiss, and that

Woodman.

road, and then he struck at the Tin Woodman with his sharp claws.  But,

Little Toto, now that he had an enemy to face, ran barking toward the
Lion, and the great beast had opened his mouth to bite the dog, when
Dorothy, fearing Toto would be killed, and heedless of danger, rushed
she cried out:

"Don't you dare to bite Toto!  You ought to be ashamed of yourself, a
big beast like you, to bite a poor little dog!"
"I didn't bite him," said the Lion, as he rubbed his nose with his paw
where Dorothy had hit it.

coward."
"I know it," said the Lion, hanging his head in shame.  "I've always
known it.  But how can I help it?"

"I don't know, I'm sure.  To think of your striking a stuffed man, like
"Is he stuffed?" asked the Lion in surprise, as he watched her pick up
the Scarecrow and set him upon his feet, while she patted him into
shape again.
"Of course he's stuffed," replied Dorothy, who was still angry.
"That's why he went over so easily," remarked the Lion.  "It astonished

again.

"That's why he nearly blunted my claws," said the Lion.  "When they
scratched against the tin it made a cold shiver run down my back.  What
is that little animal you are so tender of?"
"He is my dog, Toto," answered Dorothy.

at him.  No one would think of biting such a little thing, except a
coward like me," continued the Lion sadly.
wonder, for he was as big as a small horse.

"It's a mystery," replied the Lion.  "I suppose I was born that way.
out of my way.  Whenever I've met a man I've been awfully scared; but I
If the elephants and the tigers and the bears had ever tried to fight
me, I should have run myself--I'm such a coward; but just as soon as
they hear me roar they all try to get away from me, and of course I let
them go."
"But that isn't right.  The King of Beasts shouldn't be a coward," said
the Scarecrow.

"I know it," returned the Lion, wiping a tear from his eye with the tip
of his tail.  "It is my great sorrow, and makes my life very unhappy.

"Perhaps you have heart disease," said the Tin Woodman.

"It may be," said the Lion.

"If you have," continued the Tin Woodman, "you ought to be glad, for it
"Perhaps," said the Lion thoughtfully, "if I had no heart I should not
be a coward."

"Have you brains?" asked the Scarecrow.
"I suppose so.  I've never looked to see," replied the Lion.

"I am going to the Great Oz to ask him to give me some," remarked the
Scarecrow, "for my head is stuffed with straw."


Dorothy.
"Do you think Oz could give me courage?" asked the Cowardly Lion.

"Just as easily as he could give me brains," said the Scarecrow.

"Or give me a heart," said the Tin Woodman.
"Or send me back to Kansas," said Dorothy.
"Then, if you don't mind, I'll go with you," said the Lion, "for my
life is simply unbearable without a bit of courage."

cowardly than you are if they allow you to scare them so easily."

"They really are," said the Lion, "but that doesn't make me any braver,
and as long as I know myself to be a coward I shall be unhappy."
walking with stately strides at Dorothy's side.  Toto did not approve of
this new comrade at first, for he could not forget how nearly he had
good friends.

During the rest of that day there was no other adventure to mar the
peace of their journey.  Once, indeed, the Tin Woodman stepped upon a
beetle that was crawling along the road, and killed the poor little
thing.  This made the Tin Woodman very unhappy, for he was always
several tears of sorrow and regret.  These tears ran slowly down his
Dorothy presently asked him a question the Tin Woodman could not open
his mouth, for his jaws were tightly rusted together.  He became
greatly frightened at this and made many motions to Dorothy to relieve
him, but she could not understand.  The Lion was also puzzled to know
what was wrong.  But the Scarecrow seized the oil-can from Dorothy's
basket and oiled the Woodman's jaws, so that after a few moments he

"This will serve me a lesson," said he, "to look where I step.  For if
I should kill another bug or beetle I should surely cry again, and

Thereafter he walked very carefully, with his eyes on the road, and
harm it.  The Tin Woodman knew very well he had no heart, and therefore
he took great care never to be cruel or unkind to anything.
need never do wrong; but I have no heart, and so I must be very





They were obliged to camp out that night under a large tree in the
forest, for there were no houses near.  The tree made a good, thick
covering to protect them from the dew, and the Tin Woodman chopped a
"If you wish," said the Lion, "I will go into the forest and kill a
deer for you.  You can roast it by the fire, since your tastes are so
peculiar that you prefer cooked food, and then you will have a very
good breakfast."

weep if you killed a poor deer, and then my jaws would rust again."
But the Lion went away into the forest and found his own supper, and no
one ever knew what it was, for he didn't mention it.  And the Scarecrow
that she would not be hungry for a long time.  She thought this was
very kind and thoughtful of the Scarecrow, but she laughed heartily at
how long it took him to fill the basket, for it enabled him to keep
came near to cover Dorothy with dry leaves when she lay down to sleep.

This was to be an eventful day for the travelers.  They had hardly been
the road and divided the forest as far as they could see on either
side.  It was a very wide ditch, and when they crept up to the edge and
many big, jagged rocks at the bottom.  The sides were so steep that
none of them could climb down, and for a moment it seemed that their

"What shall we do?" asked Dorothy despairingly.

his shaggy mane and looked thoughtful.

it, we must stop where we are."

the distance carefully in his mind.

"Then we are all right," answered the Scarecrow, "for you can carry us
all over on your back, one at a time."

"Well, I'll try it," said the Lion.  "Who will go first?"
jump over the gulf, Dorothy would be killed, or the Tin Woodman badly
dented on the rocks below.  But if I am on your back it will not matter
"I am terribly afraid of falling, myself," said the Cowardly Lion, "but
I suppose there is nothing to do but try it.  So get on my back and we
will make the attempt."
Then giving a great spring, he shot through the air and landed safely
on the other side.  They were all greatly pleased to see how easily he
sprang across the ditch again.
Dorothy thought she would go next; so she took Toto in her arms and
climbed on the Lion's back, holding tightly to his mane with one hand.
then, before she had time to think about it, she was safe on the other
then they all sat down for a few moments to give the beast a chance to
rest, for his great leaps had made his breath short, and he panted like
They found the forest very thick on this side, and it looked dark and
gloomy.  After the Lion had rested they started along the road of
yellow brick, silently wondering, each in his own mind, if ever they
would come to the end of the woods and reach the bright sunshine again.
To add to their discomfort, they soon heard strange noises in the
depths of the forest, and the Lion whispered to them that it was in
this part of the country that the Kalidahs lived.

"What are the Kalidahs?" asked the girl.
tigers," replied the Lion, "and with claws so long and sharp that they
afraid of the Kalidahs."
"I'm not surprised that you are," returned Dorothy.  "They must be
dreadful beasts."

The Lion was about to reply when suddenly they came to another gulf
across the road.  But this one was so broad and deep that the Lion knew
thought the Scarecrow said:

"Here is a great tree, standing close to the ditch.  If the Tin Woodman
can chop it down, so that it will fall to the other side, we can walk
across it easily."

"That is a first-rate idea," said the Lion.  "One would almost suspect
you had brains in your head, instead of straw."

The Woodman set to work at once, and so sharp was his axe that the tree
legs against the tree and pushed with all his might, and slowly the big
tree tipped and fell with a crash across the ditch, with its top

They had just started to cross this queer bridge when a sharp growl
made them all look up, and to their horror they saw running toward them

"They are the Kalidahs!" said the Cowardly Lion, beginning to tremble.

"Quick!" cried the Scarecrow.  "Let us cross over."

So Dorothy went first, holding Toto in her arms, the Tin Woodman
followed, and the Scarecrow came next.  The Lion, although he was
certainly afraid, turned to face the Kalidahs, and then he gave so loud
and terrible a roar that Dorothy screamed and the Scarecrow fell over
in surprise.
were two of them and only one of him, the Kalidahs again rushed
forward, and the Lion crossed over the tree and turned to see what they
would do next.  Without stopping an instant the fierce beasts also
began to cross the tree.  And the Lion said to Dorothy:

claws.  But stand close behind me, and I will fight them as long as I
am alive."

"Wait a minute!" called the Scarecrow.  He had been thinking what was
the tree that rested on their side of the ditch.  The Tin Woodman began
across, the tree fell with a crash into the gulf, carrying the ugly,
snarling brutes with it, and both were dashed to pieces on the sharp

"Well," said the Cowardly Lion, drawing a long breath of relief, "I see
we are going to live a little while longer, and I am glad of it, for it
must be a very uncomfortable thing not to be alive.  Those creatures
frightened me so badly that my heart is beating yet."

"Ah," said the Tin Woodman sadly, "I wish I had a heart to beat."
This adventure made the travelers more anxious than ever to get out of
the forest, and they walked so fast that Dorothy became tired, and had
to ride on the Lion's back.  To their great joy the trees became
thinner the farther they advanced, and in the afternoon they suddenly
came upon a broad river, flowing swiftly just before them.  On the
through a beautiful country, with green meadows dotted with bright
before them.

"How shall we cross the river?" asked Dorothy.

"That is easily done," replied the Scarecrow.  "The Tin Woodman must
build us a raft, so we can float to the other side."

So the Woodman took his axe and began to chop down small trees to make
a raft, and while he was busy at this the Scarecrow found on the
eaten nothing but nuts all day, and she made a hearty meal of the ripe
fruit.

So they found a cozy place under the trees where they slept well until
the morning; and Dorothy dreamed of the Emerald City, and of the good
Wizard Oz, who would soon send her back to her own home again.



8.  The Deadly Poppy Field

Our little party of travelers awakened the next morning refreshed and
full of hope, and Dorothy breakfasted like a princess off peaches and
plums from the trees beside the river.  Behind them was the dark forest
they had passed safely through, although they had suffered many
discouragements; but before them was a lovely, sunny country that
To be sure, the broad river now cut them off from this beautiful land.
But the raft was nearly done, and after the Tin Woodman had cut a few
to start.  Dorothy sat down in the middle of the raft and held Toto in
stood upon the other end to steady it, and they had long poles in their
hands to push the raft through the water.

They got along quite well at first, but when they reached the middle of
farther away from the road of yellow brick.  And the water grew so deep
that the long poles would not touch the bottom.



"And I should get no courage," said the Cowardly Lion.

"And I should get no heart," said the Tin Woodman.
"We must certainly get to the Emerald City if we can," the Scarecrow
continued, and he pushed so hard on his long pole that it stuck fast in
the mud at the bottom of the river.  Then, before he could pull it out

him.  Indeed, the Tin Woodman began to cry, but fortunately remembered
that he might rust, and so dried his tears on Dorothy's apron.

Of course this was a bad thing for the Scarecrow.

behind.  Then the Lion said:
"Something must be done to save us.  I think I can swim to the shore

his tail.  Then the Lion began to swim with all his might toward the
were drawn out of the current, and then Dorothy took the Tin Woodman's
long pole and helped push the raft to the land.

They were all tired out when they reached the shore at last and stepped
off upon the pretty green grass, and they also knew that the stream had
carried them a long way past the road of yellow brick that led to the
"What shall we do now?" asked the Tin Woodman, as the Lion lay down on

"We must get back to the road, in some way," said Dorothy.
"The best plan will be to walk along the riverbank until we come to the
road again," remarked the Lion.

So, when they were rested, Dorothy picked up her basket and they

They walked along as fast as they could, Dorothy only stopping once to
pick a beautiful flower; and after a time the Tin Woodman cried out:
"Look!"

Then they all looked at the river and saw the Scarecrow perched upon

The Lion and the Woodman both shook their heads, for they did not know.
until a Stork flew by, who, upon seeing them, stopped to rest at the

"Who are you and where are you going?" asked the Stork.

"I am Dorothy," answered the girl, "and these are my friends, the Tin

"This isn't the road," said the Stork, as she twisted her long neck and
looked sharply at the queer party.
"I know it," returned Dorothy, "but we have lost the Scarecrow, and are
wondering how we shall get him again."
"Over there in the river," answered the little girl.

"He isn't heavy a bit," said Dorothy eagerly, "for he is stuffed with
straw; and if you will bring him back to us, we shall thank you ever

"Well, I'll try," said the Stork, "but if I find he is too heavy to
carry I shall have to drop him in the river again."
So the big bird flew into the air and over the water till she came to
the air and back to the bank, where Dorothy and the Lion and the Tin
Woodman and Toto were sitting.

When the Scarecrow found himself among his friends again, he was so

"I was afraid I should have to stay in the river forever," he said,
the Stork again and do her some kindness in return."

"I always like to help anyone in trouble.  But I must go now, for my
Emerald City and that Oz will help you."

"Thank you," replied Dorothy, and then the kind Stork flew into the air
and was soon out of sight.
birds and looking at the lovely flowers which now became so thick that
blue and purple blossoms, besides great clusters of scarlet poppies,

"Aren't they beautiful?" the girl asked, as she breathed in the spicy


"If I only had a heart, I should love them," added the Tin Woodman.
"I always did like flowers," said the Lion.  "They seem so helpless

They now came upon more and more of the big scarlet poppies, and fewer
and fewer of the other flowers; and soon they found themselves in the
midst of a great meadow of poppies.  Now it is well known that when
there are many of these flowers together their odor is so powerful that
anyone who breathes it falls asleep, and if the sleeper is not carried
away from the scent of the flowers, he sleeps on and on forever.  But
Dorothy did not know this, nor could she get away from the bright red
But the Tin Woodman would not let her do this.

"We must hurry and get back to the road of yellow brick before dark,"
she forgot where she was and fell among the poppies, fast asleep.
"What shall we do?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"If we leave her here she will die," said the Lion.  "The smell of the
flowers is killing us all.  I myself can scarcely keep my eyes open,
and the dog is asleep already."
troubled by the scent of the flowers.

"Run fast," said the Scarecrow to the Lion, "and get out of this deadly
flower bed as soon as you can.  We will bring the little girl with us,
but if you should fall asleep you are too big to be carried."

So the Lion aroused himself and bounded forward as fast as he could go.
In a moment he was out of sight.
So they picked up Toto and put the dog in Dorothy's lap, and then they
made a chair with their hands for the seat and their arms for the arms
and carried the sleeping girl between them through the flowers.
flowers that surrounded them would never end.  They followed the bend
asleep among the poppies.  The flowers had been too strong for the huge
from the end of the poppy bed, where the sweet grass spread in
"We can do nothing for him," said the Tin Woodman, sadly; "for he is
much too heavy to lift.  We must leave him here to sleep on forever,
and perhaps he will dream that he has found courage at last."


poison of the flowers, and here they laid her gently on the soft grass




"We cannot be far from the road of yellow brick, now," remarked the
Scarecrow, as he stood beside the girl, "for we have come nearly as far
as the river carried us away."

The Tin Woodman was about to reply when he heard a low growl, and
turning his head (which worked beautifully on hinges) he saw a strange
beast come bounding over the grass toward them.  It was, indeed, a
great yellow Wildcat, and the Woodman thought it must be chasing
something, for its ears were lying close to its head and its mouth was
wide open, showing two rows of ugly teeth, while its red eyes glowed
before the beast was a little gray field mouse, and although he had no
pretty, harmless creature.

So the Woodman raised his axe, and as the Wildcat ran by he gave it a


"Don't speak of it, I beg of you," replied the Woodman.  "I have no

"Only a mouse!" cried the little animal, indignantly.  "Why, I am a


"Therefore you have done a great deed, as well as a brave one, in
saving my life," added the Queen.
little legs could carry them, and when they saw their Queen they
exclaimed:
"Oh, your Majesty, we thought you would be killed!  How did you manage

"This funny tin man," she answered, "killed the Wildcat and saved my

"We will!" cried all the mice, in a shrill chorus.  And then they
seeing all these mice around him he gave one bark of delight and jumped
right into the middle of the group.  Toto had always loved to chase
But the Tin Woodman caught the dog in his arms and held him tight,
while he called to the mice, "Come back!  Come back!  Toto shall not
hurt you."

clump of grass and asked, in a timid voice, "Are you sure he will not

"I will not let him," said the Woodman; "so do not be afraid."
One by one the mice came creeping back, and Toto did not bark again,
of the biggest mice spoke.
life of our Queen?"
"Nothing that I know of," answered the Woodman; but the Scarecrow, who
had been trying to think, but could not because his head was stuffed
with straw, said, quickly, "Oh, yes; you can save our friend, the

"A Lion!" cried the little Queen.  "Why, he would eat us all up."
"Oh, no," declared the Scarecrow; "this Lion is a coward."

"Really?" asked the Mouse.

anyone who is our friend.  If you will help us to save him I promise

"Very well," said the Queen, "we trust you.  But what shall we do?"
"Are there many of these mice which call you Queen and are willing to

"Oh, yes; there are thousands," she replied.
"Then send for them all to come here as soon as possible, and let each
The Queen turned to the mice that attended her and told them to go at
once and get all her people.  As soon as they heard her orders they ran
away in every direction as fast as possible.

"Now," said the Scarecrow to the Tin Woodman, "you must go to those
trees by the riverside and make a truck that will carry the Lion."
So the Woodman went at once to the trees and began to work; and he soon
made a truck out of the limbs of trees, from which he chopped away all
the leaves and branches.  He fastened it together with wooden pegs and

They came from all directions, and there were thousands of them: big
mice and little mice and middle-sized mice; and each one brought a
piece of string in his mouth.  It was about this time that Dorothy woke
from her long sleep and opened her eyes.  She was greatly astonished to
find herself lying upon the grass, with thousands of mice standing
everything, and turning to the dignified little Mouse, he said:


Dorothy nodded gravely and the Queen made a curtsy, after which she
became quite friendly with the little girl.

truck, using the strings they had brought.  One end of a string was
were to draw it; but when all the mice had been harnessed, they were
able to pull it quite easily.  Even the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman
After a great deal of hard work, for the Lion was heavy, they managed
to get him up on the truck.  Then the Queen hurriedly gave her people
the order to start, for she feared if the mice stayed among the poppies
too long they also would fall asleep.

At first the little creatures, many though they were, could hardly stir
fresh air again, instead of the poisonous scent of the flowers.

Dorothy came to meet them and thanked the little mice warmly for saving

Then the mice were unharnessed from the truck and scampered away
through the grass to their homes.  The Queen of the Mice was the last

After this they sat down beside the Lion until he should awaken; and
the Scarecrow brought Dorothy some fruit from a tree near by, which she
ate for her dinner.





It was some time before the Cowardly Lion awakened, for he had lain
among the poppies a long while, breathing in their deadly fragrance;
to find himself still alive.
flowers were too strong for me.  How did you get me out?"
shall we do now?"

"We must journey on until we find the road of yellow brick again," said
Dorothy, "and then we can keep on to the Emerald City."

they all started upon the journey, greatly enjoying the walk through
the soft, fresh grass; and it was not long before they reached the road
of yellow brick and turned again toward the Emerald City where the

The road was smooth and well paved, now, and the country about was
beautiful, so that the travelers rejoiced in leaving the forest far
behind, and with it the many dangers they had met in its gloomy shades.
Once more they could see fences built beside the road; but these were
evidently lived, that also was painted green.  They passed by several
of these houses during the afternoon, and sometimes people came to the
doors and looked at them as if they would like to ask questions; but no
one came near them nor spoke to them because of the great Lion, of
which they were very much afraid.  The people were all dressed in
those of the Munchkins.
near the Emerald City."

"Yes," answered the Scarecrow.  "Everything is green here, while in the
country of the Munchkins blue was the favorite color.  But the people
be unable to find a place to pass the night."

"I should like something to eat besides fruit," said the girl, "and I'm
the people."

to the door and knocked.

A woman opened it just far enough to look out, and said, "What do you
want, child, and why is that great Lion with you?"
Dorothy; "and the Lion is my friend and comrade, and would not hurt you

"Is he tame?" asked the woman, opening the door a little wider.

more afraid of you than you are of him."

at the Lion, "if that is the case you may come in, and I will give you

couch in a corner.  They seemed greatly surprised to see so strange a
"Where are you all going?"
"To the Emerald City," said Dorothy, "to see the Great Oz."



"Why, it is said that he never lets anyone come into his presence.  I
have been to the Emerald City many times, and it is a beautiful and
wonderful place; but I have never been permitted to see the Great Oz,
nor do I know of any living person who has seen him."

"Does he never go out?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Never.  He sits day after day in the great Throne Room of his Palace,
and even those who wait upon him do not see him face to face."

"What is he like?" asked the girl.

he looks like a cat.  To others he appears as a beautiful fairy, or a
is, when he is in his own form, no living person can tell."

"That is very strange," said Dorothy, "but we must try, in some way, to
see him, or we shall have made our journey for nothing."



"Oh, Oz could do that easily enough," declared the man.  "He has more
brains than he needs."


"That will not trouble him," continued the man, "for Oz has a large
collection of hearts, of all sizes and shapes."

"And I want him to give me courage," said the Cowardly Lion.

"which he has covered with a golden plate, to keep it from running
over.  He will be glad to give you some."

"And I want him to send me back to Kansas," said Dorothy.


"I don't know," replied Dorothy sorrowfully, "but it is my home, and
I'm sure it's somewhere."

"Very likely.  Well, Oz can do anything; so I suppose he will find
Kansas for you.  But first you must get to see him, and that will be a
usually has his own way.  But what do YOU want?" he continued, speaking

The woman now called to them that supper was ready, so they gathered
around the table and Dorothy ate some delicious porridge and a dish of
scrambled eggs and a plate of nice white bread, and enjoyed her meal.
was made from oats and oats were food for horses, not for lions.  The
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman ate nothing at all.  Toto ate a little of
everything, and was glad to get a good supper again.
her, while the Lion guarded the door of her room so she might not be
disturbed.  The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman stood up in a corner and

The next morning, as soon as the sun was up, they started on their way,
"That must be the Emerald City," said Dorothy.

As they walked on, the green glow became brighter and brighter, and it
was afternoon before they came to the great wall that surrounded the
City.  It was high and thick and of a bright green color.

In front of them, and at the end of the road of yellow brick, was a big
gate, all studded with emeralds that glittered so in the sun that even
the painted eyes of the Scarecrow were dazzled by their brilliancy.
There was a bell beside the gate, and Dorothy pushed the button and
room, the walls of which glistened with countless emeralds.

Before them stood a little man about the same size as the Munchkins.
He was clothed all in green, from his head to his feet, and even his
skin was of a greenish tint.  At his side was a large green box.
When he saw Dorothy and her companions the man asked, "What do you wish
"We came here to see the Great Oz," said Dorothy.
The man was so surprised at this answer that he sat down to think it

shaking his head in perplexity.  "He is powerful and terrible, and if
you come on an idle or foolish errand to bother the wise reflections of
the Great Wizard, he might be angry and destroy you all in an instant."
"But it is not a foolish errand, nor an idle one," replied the
Wizard."

"So he is," said the green man, "and he rules the Emerald City wisely
and well.  But to those who are not honest, or who approach him from
curiosity, he is most terrible, and few have ever dared ask to see his
face.  I am the Guardian of the Gates, and since you demand to see the
spectacles."

"Why?" asked Dorothy.
Emerald City would blind you.  Even those who live in the City must
wear spectacles night and day.  They are all locked on, for Oz so
ordered it when the City was first built, and I have the only key that
will unlock them."
He opened the big box, and Dorothy saw that it was filled with
spectacles of every size and shape.  All of them had green glasses in
them.  The Guardian of the Gates found a pair that would just fit
Dorothy and put them over her eyes.  There were two golden bands
fastened to them that passed around the back of her head, where they
could not take them off had she wished, but of course she did not wish

Then the green man fitted spectacles for the Scarecrow and the Tin

was ready to show them to the Palace.  Taking a big golden key from a
peg on the wall, he opened another gate, and they all followed him
through the portal into the streets of the Emerald City.





Even with eyes protected by the green spectacles, Dorothy and her
friends were at first dazzled by the brilliancy of the wonderful City.
and studded everywhere with sparkling emeralds.  They walked over a
sky above the City had a green tint, and the rays of the sun were green.
these were all dressed in green clothes and had greenish skins.  They
street, and Dorothy saw that everything in them was green.  Green candy
and green pop corn were offered for sale, as well as green shoes, green
they paid for it with green pennies.

There seemed to be no horses nor animals of any kind; the men carried
Everyone seemed happy and contented and prosperous.
The Guardian of the Gates led them through the streets until they came
dressed in a green uniform and wearing a long green beard.
"Here are strangers," said the Guardian of the Gates to him, "and they
demand to see the Great Oz."

"Step inside," answered the soldier, "and I will carry your message to
this room, and when they were seated he said politely:

"Please make yourselves comfortable while I go to the door of the
Throne Room and tell Oz you are here."
They had to wait a long time before the soldier returned.  When, at

"Have you seen Oz?"

"Oh, no," returned the soldier; "I have never seen him.  But I spoke to
him as he sat behind his screen and gave him your message.  He said he
journey."

dressed in a pretty green silk gown, entered the room.  She had lovely
green hair and green eyes, and she bowed low before Dorothy as she
said, "Follow me and I will show you your room."

So Dorothy said good-bye to all her friends except Toto, and taking the
Palace.  It was the sweetest little room in the world, with a soft
comfortable bed that had sheets of green silk and a green velvet
counterpane.  There was a tiny fountain in the middle of the room, that
beautifully carved green marble basin.  Beautiful green flowers stood
When Dorothy had time to open these books she found them full of queer

In a wardrobe were many green dresses, made of silk and satin and
velvet; and all of them fitted Dorothy exactly.

"Make yourself perfectly at home," said the green girl, "and if you
wish for anything ring the bell.  Oz will send for you tomorrow
She left Dorothy alone and went back to the others.  These she also led
to rooms, and each one of them found himself lodged in a very pleasant
It would not rest him to lie down, and he could not close his eyes; so
web in a corner of the room, just as if it were not one of the most
being able to sleep, he passed the night moving his joints up and down
to make sure they kept in good working order.  The Lion would have
preferred a bed of dried leaves in the forest, and did not like being
shut up in a room; but he had too much sense to let this worry him, so

The next morning, after breakfast, the green maiden came to fetch
green ribbon around Toto's neck, and they started for the Throne Room
of the court, all dressed in rich costumes.  These people had nothing
to do but talk to each other, but they always came to wait outside the
Throne Room every morning, although they were never permitted to see
Oz.  As Dorothy entered they looked at her curiously, and one of them

"Are you really going to look upon the face of Oz the Terrible?"

"Of course," answered the girl, "if he will see me."

"Oh, he will see you," said the soldier who had taken her message to
your silver shoes he was very much interested.  At last I told him
about the mark upon your forehead, and he decided he would admit you to
his presence."
Just then a bell rang, and the green girl said to Dorothy, "That is the
signal.  You must go into the Throne Room alone."
She opened a little door and Dorothy walked boldly through and found
herself in a wonderful place.  It was a big, round room with a high
arched roof, and the walls and ceiling and floor were covered with
large emeralds set closely together.  In the center of the roof was a

But what interested Dorothy most was the big throne of green marble
sparkled with gems, as did everything else.  In the center of the chair
was an enormous Head, without a body to support it or any arms or legs
As Dorothy gazed upon this in wonder and fear, the eyes turned slowly
and looked at her sharply and steadily.  Then the mouth moved, and
Dorothy heard a voice say:


Head; so she took courage and answered:

"I am Dorothy, the Small and Meek.  I have come to you for help."

The eyes looked at her thoughtfully for a full minute.  Then said the
voice:


"Where did you get the mark upon your forehead?" continued the voice.
"That is where the Good Witch of the North kissed me when she bade me

Again the eyes looked at her sharply, and they saw she was telling the

answered earnestly.  "I don't like your country, although it is so
beautiful.  And I am sure Aunt Em will be dreadfully worried over my
being away so long."

The eyes winked three times, and then they turned up to the ceiling and
down to the floor and rolled around so queerly that they seemed to see
every part of the room.  And at last they looked at Dorothy again.
"Why should I do this for you?" asked Oz.
"Because you are strong and I am weak; because you are a Great Wizard
and I am only a little girl."

"But you were strong enough to kill the Wicked Witch of the East," said

"That just happened," returned Dorothy simply; "I could not help it."

to expect me to send you back to Kansas unless you do something for me
"What must I do?" asked the girl.

"Kill the Wicked Witch of the West," answered Oz.

"But I cannot!" exclaimed Dorothy, greatly surprised.

"You killed the Witch of the East and you wear the silver shoes, which

"I never killed anything, willingly," she sobbed.  "Even if I wanted
Terrible, cannot kill her yourself, how do you expect me to do it?"

that the Witch is Wicked--tremendously Wicked--and ought to be killed.
not send me home until I have killed the Wicked Witch of the West; and
went to her own room and lay down on the bed and cried herself to sleep.


Room, where he saw, sitting in the emerald throne, a most lovely Lady.
breath of air reached them.

When the Scarecrow had bowed, as prettily as his straw stuffing would
and said:
"I am Oz, the Great and Terrible.  Who are you, and why do you seek me?"

told him of, was much astonished; but he answered her bravely.

your dominions."

"Because you are wise and powerful, and no one else can help me,"
answered the Scarecrow.
"I never grant favors without some return," said Oz; "but this much I
"So I did.  I don't care who kills her.  But until she is dead I will
earned the brains you so greatly desire."

was not a Head, as she had seen him, but a lovely Lady.

Woodman and said:

"Oz has sent for you.  Follow me."

did not know whether he would find Oz a lovely Lady or a Head, but he
hoped it would be the lovely Lady.  "For," he said to himself, "if it
is the head, I am sure I shall not be given a heart, since a head has
no heart of its own and therefore cannot feel for me.  But if it is the
It was nearly as big as an elephant, and the green throne seemed hardly
strong enough to hold its weight.  The Beast had a head like that of a
rhinoceros, only there were five eyes in its face.  There were five
legs.  Thick, woolly hair covered every part of it, and a more
and fast from terror.  But being only tin, the Woodman was not at all
afraid, although he was much disappointed.

one great roar.  "Who are you, and why do you seek me?"

cannot love.  I pray you to give me a heart that I may be as other men
are."


"Because I ask it, and you alone can grant my request," answered the
Oz gave a low growl at this, but said, gruffly: "If you indeed desire a
heart, you must earn it."

So the Tin Woodman was forced to return sorrowfully to his friends and
tell them of the terrible Beast he had seen.  They all wondered greatly
at the many forms the Great Wizard could take upon himself, and the
Lion said:

"If he is a Beast when I go to see him, I shall roar my loudest, and so
frighten him that he will grant all I ask.  And if he is the lovely
bidding.  And if he is the great Head, he will be at my mercy; for I
will roll this head all about the room until he promises to give us
what we desire.  So be of good cheer, my friends, for all will yet be
well."

The next morning the soldier with the green whiskers led the Lion to
the great Throne Room and bade him enter the presence of Oz.

The Lion at once passed through the door, and glancing around saw, to
glowing he could scarcely bear to gaze upon it.  His first thought was
that Oz had by accident caught on fire and was burning up; but when he

Then a low, quiet voice came from the Ball of Fire, and these were the
"I am Oz, the Great and Terrible.  Who are you, and why do you seek me?"

And the Lion answered, "I am a Cowardly Lion, afraid of everything.  I
came to you to beg that you give me courage, so that in reality I may
become the King of Beasts, as men call me."

grant my request," answered the Lion.

me proof that the Wicked Witch is dead, and that moment I will give you
courage.  But as long as the Witch lives, you must remain a coward."
The Lion was angry at this speech, but could say nothing in reply, and
while he stood silently gazing at the Ball of Fire it became so
furiously hot that he turned tail and rushed from the room.  He was
interview with the Wizard.


"There is only one thing we can do," returned the Lion, "and that is to
go to the land of the Winkies, seek out the Wicked Witch, and destroy

"Then I shall never have courage," declared the Lion.


"And I shall never have a heart," spoke the Tin Woodman.

"And I shall never see Aunt Em and Uncle Henry," said Dorothy,
beginning to cry.

"Be careful!" cried the green girl.  "The tears will fall on your green
silk gown and spot it."
So Dorothy dried her eyes and said, "I suppose we must try it; but I am
"I will go with you; but I'm too much of a coward to kill the Witch,"
said the Lion.
"I will go too," declared the Scarecrow; "but I shall not be of much
help to you, I am such a fool."

"but if you go I certainly shall go with you."
Therefore it was decided to start upon their journey the next morning,
and the Woodman sharpened his axe on a green grindstone and had all his
and Dorothy put new paint on his eyes that he might see better.  The
green girl, who was very kind to them, filled Dorothy's basket with
a green ribbon.

back yard of the Palace, and the cackling of a hen that had laid a
green egg.



12.  The Search for the Wicked Witch


The soldier with the green whiskers led them through the streets of the
Emerald City until they reached the room where the Guardian of the
Gates lived.  This officer unlocked their spectacles to put them back
"Which road leads to the Wicked Witch of the West?" asked Dorothy.

"There is no road," answered the Guardian of the Gates.  "No one ever
wishes to go that way."


"That will be easy," replied the man, "for when she knows you are in
slaves."


"Oh, that is different," said the Guardian of the Gates.  "No one has
of you, as she has of the rest.  But take care; for she is wicked and
fierce, and may not allow you to destroy her.  Keep to the West, where
the sun sets, and you cannot fail to find her."

They thanked him and bade him good-bye, and turned toward the West,
walking over fields of soft grass dotted here and there with daisies
and buttercups.  Dorothy still wore the pretty silk dress she had put
on in the palace, but now, to her surprise, she found it was no longer
green, but pure white.  The ribbon around Toto's neck had also lost its

The Emerald City was soon left far behind.  As they advanced the ground
became rougher and hillier, for there were no farms nor houses in this
In the afternoon the sun shone hot in their faces, for there were no
trees to offer them shade; so that before night Dorothy and Toto and
the Lion were tired, and lay down upon the grass and fell asleep, with

powerful as a telescope, and could see everywhere.  So, as she sat in
lying asleep, with her friends all about her.  They were a long
distance off, but the Wicked Witch was angry to find them in her
country; so she blew upon a silver whistle that hung around her neck.



"No," she answered, "one is of tin, and one of straw; one is a girl and
small pieces."

"Very well," said the wolf, and he dashed away at full speed, followed
by the others.

It was lucky the Scarecrow and the Woodman were wide awake and heard
the wolves coming.
"This is my fight," said the Woodman, "so get behind me and I will meet
them as they come."
He seized his axe, which he had made very sharp, and as the leader of
the wolves came on the Tin Woodman swung his arm and chopped the wolf's
head from its body, so that it immediately died.  As soon as he could
edge of the Tin Woodman's weapon.  There were forty wolves, and forty
before the Woodman.

was a good fight, friend."

quite frightened when she saw the great pile of shaggy wolves, but the
Tin Woodman told her all.  She thanked him for saving them and sat down
Now this same morning the Wicked Witch came to the door of her castle
and looked out with her one eye that could see far off.  She saw all
country.  This made her angrier than before, and she blew her silver
to darken the sky.
strangers; peck out their eyes and tear them to pieces."

The wild crows flew in one great flock toward Dorothy and her
companions.  When the little girl saw them coming she was afraid.
So they all lay upon the ground except the Scarecrow, and he stood up
to come any nearer.  But the King Crow said:

"It is only a stuffed man.  I will peck his eyes out."
The King Crow flew at the Scarecrow, who caught it by the head and
the Scarecrow twisted its neck also.  There were forty crows, and forty
went upon their journey.

When the Wicked Witch looked out again and saw all her crows lying in a
heap, she got into a terrible rage, and blew three times upon her
silver whistle.

Forthwith there was heard a great buzzing in the air, and a swarm of
black bees came flying toward her.
"Go to the strangers and sting them to death!" commanded the Witch, and
the bees turned and flew rapidly until they came to where Dorothy and
the Scarecrow had decided what to do.
"Take out my straw and scatter it over the little girl and the dog and
the Lion," he said to the Woodman, "and the bees cannot sting them."
Toto in her arms, the straw covered them entirely.

The bees came and found no one but the Woodman to sting, so they flew
broken that was the end of the black bees, and they lay scattered thick
about the Woodman, like little heaps of fine coal.
Then Dorothy and the Lion got up, and the girl helped the Tin Woodman
put the straw back into the Scarecrow again, until he was as good as
ever.  So they started upon their journey once more.
The Wicked Witch was so angry when she saw her black bees in little
heaps like fine coal that she stamped her foot and tore her hair and
gnashed her teeth.  And then she called a dozen of her slaves, who were
the Winkies, and gave them sharp spears, telling them to go to the
strangers and destroy them.
The Winkies were not a brave people, but they had to do as they were
told.  So they marched away until they came near to Dorothy.  Then the
Lion gave a great roar and sprang towards them, and the poor Winkies
When they returned to the castle the Wicked Witch beat them well with a
strap, and sent them back to their work, after which she sat down to
plans to destroy these strangers had failed; but she was a powerful
Witch, as well as a wicked one, and she soon made up her mind how to
act.

There was, in her cupboard, a Golden Cap, with a circle of diamonds and
rubies running round it.  This Golden Cap had a charm.  Whoever owned
it could call three times upon the Winged Monkeys, who would obey any
order they were given.  But no person could command these strange
creatures more than three times.  Twice already the Wicked Witch had
slaves, and set herself to rule over their country.  The Winged Monkeys
had helped her do this.  The second time was when she had fought
West.  The Winged Monkeys had also helped her in doing this.  Only once
more could she use this Golden Cap, for which reason she did not like
fierce wolves and her wild crows and her stinging bees were gone, and
her slaves had been scared away by the Cowardly Lion, she saw there was
only one way left to destroy Dorothy and her friends.

So the Wicked Witch took the Golden Cap from her cupboard and placed it
upon her head.  Then she stood upon her left foot and said slowly:
"Ep-pe, pep-pe, kak-ke!"

Next she stood upon her right foot and said:
"Hil-lo, hol-lo, hel-lo!"

After this she stood upon both feet and cried in a loud voice:


Now the charm began to work.  The sky was darkened, and a low rumbling
sound was heard in the air.  There was a rushing of many wings, a great
chattering and laughing, and the sun came out of the dark sky to show
the Wicked Witch surrounded by a crowd of monkeys, each with a pair of
immense and powerful wings on his shoulders.

One, much bigger than the others, seemed to be their leader.  He flew
time.  What do you command?"
"Go to the strangers who are within my land and destroy them all except
a mind to harness him like a horse, and make him work."

deal of chattering and noise, the Winged Monkeys flew away to the place
where Dorothy and her friends were walking.

Some of the Monkeys seized the Tin Woodman and carried him through the
air until they were over a country thickly covered with sharp rocks.
Here they dropped the poor Woodman, who fell a great distance to the
rocks, where he lay so battered and dented that he could neither move
nor groan.

pulled all of the straw out of his clothes and head.  They made his hat
and boots and clothes into a small bundle and threw it into the top

wound many coils about his body and head and legs, until he was unable
small yard with a high iron fence around it, so that he could not

he saw the mark of the Good Witch's kiss upon her forehead and stopped

protected by the Power of Good, and that is greater than the Power of
Evil.  All we can do is to carry her to the castle of the Wicked Witch
and leave her there."
So, carefully and gently, they lifted Dorothy in their arms and carried

"We have obeyed you as far as we were able.  The Tin Woodman and the

Then all the Winged Monkeys, with much laughing and chattering and
The Wicked Witch was both surprised and worried when she saw the mark
on Dorothy's forehead, for she knew well that neither the Winged
Monkeys nor she, herself, dare hurt the girl in any way.  She looked
down at Dorothy's feet, and seeing the Silver Shoes, began to tremble
with fear, for she knew what a powerful charm belonged to them.  At
first the Witch was tempted to run away from Dorothy; but she happened
to look into the child's eyes and saw how simple the soul behind them
Silver Shoes gave her.  So the Wicked Witch laughed to herself, and
use her power." Then she said to Dorothy, harshly and severely:

"Come with me; and see that you mind everything I tell you, for if you
do not I will make an end of you, as I did of the Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow."
Dorothy followed her through many of the beautiful rooms in her castle
and kettles and sweep the floor and keep the fire fed with wood.

Dorothy went to work meekly, with her mind made up to work as hard as
she could; for she was glad the Wicked Witch had decided not to kill

With Dorothy hard at work, the Witch thought she would go into the
bounded at her so fiercely that the Witch was afraid, and ran out and

"If I cannot harness you," said the Witch to the Lion, speaking through
the bars of the gate, "I can starve you.  You shall have nothing to eat
until you do as I wish."

she came to the gate at noon and asked, "Are you ready to be harnessed
like a horse?"
you."
The reason the Lion did not have to do as the Witch wished was that
the cupboard.  After he had eaten he would lie down on his bed of
straw, and Dorothy would lie beside him and put her head on his soft,
shaggy mane, while they talked of their troubles and tried to plan some
way to escape.  But they could find no way to get out of the castle,
for it was constantly guarded by the yellow Winkies, who were the
them.

with her umbrella and the brave little dog flew at her and bit her leg
so wicked that the blood in her had dried up many years before.

Dorothy's life became very sad as she grew to understand that it would
looking into her face, whining dismally to show how sorry he was for
his little mistress.  Toto did not really care whether he was in Kansas

Now the Wicked Witch had a great longing to have for her own the Silver
Shoes which the girl always wore.  Her bees and her crows and her
wolves were lying in heaps and drying up, and she had used up all the
Shoes, they would give her more power than all the other things she had
her pretty shoes that she never took them off except at night and when
she took her bath.  The Witch was too much afraid of the dark to dare
go in Dorothy's room at night to take the shoes, and her dread of water
was greater than her fear of the dark, so she never came near when
Dorothy was bathing.  Indeed, the old Witch never touched water, nor

But the wicked creature was very cunning, and she finally thought of a
the middle of the kitchen floor, and then by her magic arts made the
iron invisible to human eyes.  So that when Dorothy walked across the
full length.  She was not much hurt, but in her fall one of the Silver
Shoes came off; and before she could reach it, the Witch had snatched
it away and put it on her own skinny foot.
The wicked woman was greatly pleased with the success of her trick, for
as long as she had one of the shoes she owned half the power of their
to do so.
angry, and said to the Witch, "Give me back my shoe!"

"I will not," retorted the Witch, "for it is now my shoe, and not
yours."

"You are a wicked creature!" cried Dorothy.  "You have no right to take
my shoe from me."


foot.

away.
away."

"I'm very sorry, indeed," said Dorothy, who was truly frightened to see
the Witch actually melting away like brown sugar before her very eyes.

"Didn't you know water would be the end of me?" asked the Witch, in a
wailing, despairing voice.

"Of course not," answered Dorothy.  "How should I?"
"Well, in a few minutes I shall be all melted, and you will have the
castle to yourself.  I have been wicked in my day, but I never thought
a little girl like you would ever be able to melt me and end my wicked
With these words the Witch fell down in a brown, melted, shapeless mass
and began to spread over the clean boards of the kitchen floor.  Seeing
that she had really melted away to nothing, Dorothy drew another bucket
of water and threw it over the mess.  She then swept it all out the
of the old woman, she cleaned and dried it with a cloth, and put it on
her foot again.  Then, being at last free to do as she chose, she ran
out to the courtyard to tell the Lion that the Wicked Witch of the West
land.

been melted by a bucket of water, and Dorothy at once unlocked the gate

There was great rejoicing among the yellow Winkies, for they had been
made to work hard during many years for the Wicked Witch, who had
always treated them with great cruelty.  They kept this day as a
holiday, then and ever after, and spent the time in feasting and
dancing.

"If our friends, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, were only with us,"
said the Lion, "I should be quite happy."

"Don't you suppose we could rescue them?" asked the girl anxiously.

"We can try," answered the Lion.

rescue their friends, and the Winkies said that they would be delighted
knew the most, and they all started away.  They traveled that day and
blade was rusted and the handle broken off short.

The Winkies lifted him tenderly in their arms, and carried him back to
When they reached the castle Dorothy said to the Winkies:

bringing with them all their tools in baskets, she inquired, "Can you
The tinsmiths looked the Woodman over carefully and then answered that
they thought they could mend him so he would be as good as ever.  So
bending and soldering and polishing and pounding at the legs and body
and head of the Tin Woodman, until at last he was straightened out into
his old form, and his joints worked as well as ever.  To be sure, there
were several patches on him, but the tinsmiths did a good job, and as

rescuing him, he was so pleased that he wept tears of joy, and Dorothy
had to wipe every tear carefully from his face with her apron, so his
joints would not be rusted.  At the same time her own tears fell thick
often with the tip of his tail that it became quite wet, and he was
obliged to go out into the courtyard and hold it in the sun till it
dried.
"If we only had the Scarecrow with us again," said the Tin Woodman,
"We must try to find him," said the girl.
So she called the Winkies to help her, and they walked all that day and
part of the next until they came to the tall tree in the branches of
which the Winged Monkeys had tossed the Scarecrow's clothes.
It was a very tall tree, and the trunk was so smooth that no one could
can get the Scarecrow's clothes."

another of the Winkies, who was a goldsmith, had made an axe-handle of
solid gold and fitted it to the Woodman's axe, instead of the old
broken handle.  Others polished the blade until all the rust was
As soon as he had spoken, the Tin Woodman began to chop, and in a short
time the tree fell over with a crash, whereupon the Scarecrow's clothes
castle, where they were stuffed with nice, clean straw; and behold!
here was the Scarecrow, as good as ever, thanking them over and over
Now that they were reunited, Dorothy and her friends spent a few happy
days at the Yellow Castle, where they found everything they needed to

But one day the girl thought of Aunt Em, and said, "We must go back to

"Yes," said the Woodman, "at last I shall get my heart."



"And I shall get back to Kansas," cried Dorothy, clapping her hands.
"Oh, let us start for the Emerald City tomorrow!"

This they decided to do.  The next day they called the Winkies together
and bade them good-bye.  The Winkies were sorry to have them go, and
and rule over them and the Yellow Land of the West.  Finding they were
collar; and to Dorothy they presented a beautiful bracelet studded with
diamonds; and to the Scarecrow they gave a gold-headed walking stick,
to keep him from stumbling; and to the Tin Woodman they offered a
silver oil-can, inlaid with gold and set with precious jewels.

Every one of the travelers made the Winkies a pretty speech in return,
and all shook hands with them until their arms ached.

Dorothy went to the Witch's cupboard to fill her basket with food for
about the charm of the Golden Cap, but she saw that it was pretty, so
she made up her mind to wear it and carry her sunbonnet in the basket.

Then, being prepared for the journey, they all started for the Emerald
City; and the Winkies gave them three cheers and many good wishes to





castle of the Wicked Witch and the Emerald City.  When the four
travelers went in search of the Witch she had seen them coming, and so
sent the Winged Monkeys to bring them to her.  It was much harder to
find their way back through the big fields of buttercups and yellow
daisies than it was being carried.  They knew, of course, they must go
straight east, toward the rising sun; and they started off in the right
way.  But at noon, when the sun was over their heads, they did not know
which was east and which was west, and that was the reason they were
lost in the great fields.  They kept on walking, however, and at night
the moon came out and shone brightly.  So they lay down among the sweet
smelling yellow flowers and slept soundly until morning--all but the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman.


"If we walk far enough," said Dorothy, "I am sure we shall sometime

But day by day passed away, and they still saw nothing before them but

"Nor I my heart," declared the Tin Woodman.  "It seems to me I can
"You see," said the Cowardly Lion, with a whimper, "I haven't the
courage to keep tramping forever, without getting anywhere at all."
Then Dorothy lost heart.  She sat down on the grass and looked at her
companions, and they sat down and looked at her, and Toto found that
for the first time in his life he was too tired to chase a butterfly
looked at Dorothy as if to ask what they should do next.

"Suppose we call the field mice," she suggested.  "They could probably
tell us the way to the Emerald City."

"To be sure they could," cried the Scarecrow.  "Why didn't we think of
that before?"

Dorothy blew the little whistle she had always carried about her neck
since the Queen of the Mice had given it to her.  In a few minutes they
running up to her.  Among them was the Queen herself, who asked, in her
squeaky little voice:

"What can I do for my friends?"

"We have lost our way," said Dorothy.  "Can you tell us where the
Emerald City is?"

have had it at your backs all this time."  Then she noticed Dorothy's
Golden Cap, and said, "Why don't you use the charm of the Cap, and call
the Winged Monkeys to you?  They will carry you to the City of Oz in
less than an hour."
"I didn't know there was a charm," answered Dorothy, in surprise.
"What is it?"
"It is written inside the Golden Cap," replied the Queen of the Mice.
"But if you are going to call the Winged Monkeys we must run away, for
they are full of mischief and think it great fun to plague us."

"Won't they hurt me?" asked the girl anxiously.


Dorothy looked inside the Golden Cap and saw some words written upon
the lining.  These, she thought, must be the charm, so she read the
directions carefully and put the Cap upon her head.

"Ep-pe, pep-pe, kak-ke!" she said, standing on her left foot.
doing.
right foot.

"Hello!" replied the Tin Woodman calmly.
This ended the saying of the charm, and they heard a great chattering
and flapping of wings, as the band of Winged Monkeys flew up to them.

The King bowed low before Dorothy, and asked, "What is your command?"

"We will carry you," replied the King, and no sooner had he spoken than
Monkey seized Toto and flew after them, although the dog tried hard to
but they saw that no harm was intended, so they rode through the air
quite cheerfully, and had a fine time looking at the pretty gardens and
woods far below them.

Dorothy found herself riding easily between two of the biggest Monkeys,
one of them the King himself.  They had made a chair of their hands and
were careful not to hurt her.


about it, if you wish."

"I shall be glad to hear it," she replied.

great forest, flying from tree to tree, eating nuts and fruit, and
of us were rather too full of mischief at times, flying down to pull
the tails of the animals that had no wings, chasing birds, and throwing
nuts at the people who walked in the forest.  But we were careless and
happy and full of fun, and enjoyed every minute of the day.  This was
many years ago, long before Oz came out of the clouds to rule over this
"There lived here then, away at the North, a beautiful princess, who
people, and she was never known to hurt anyone who was good.  Her name
blocks of ruby.  Everyone loved her, but her greatest sorrow was that
she could find no one to love in return, since all the men were much
too stupid and ugly to mate with one so beautiful and wise.  At last,
however, she found a boy who was handsome and manly and wise beyond his
years.  Gayelette made up her mind that when he grew to be a man she
all her magic powers to make him as strong and good and lovely as any
woman could wish.  When he grew to manhood, Quelala, as he was called,
beauty was so great that Gayelette loved him dearly, and hastened to
make everything ready for the wedding.

"My grandfather was at that time the King of the Winged Monkeys which
joke better than a good dinner.  One day, just before the wedding, my
grandfather was flying out with his band when he saw Quelala walking
beside the river.  He was dressed in a rich costume of pink silk and
purple velvet, and my grandfather thought he would see what he could
do.  At his word the band flew down and seized Quelala, carried him in
their arms until they were over the middle of the river, and then
dropped him into the water.
"'Swim out, my fine fellow,' cried my grandfather, 'and see if the
water has spotted your clothes.'  Quelala was much too wise not to
laughed, when he came to the top of the water, and swam in to shore.
all the Winged Monkeys brought before her, and she said at first that
treated Quelala, and dropped in the river.  But my grandfather pleaded
after do three times the bidding of the owner of the Golden Cap.  This
have cost the princess half her kingdom.  Of course my grandfather and
all the other Monkeys at once agreed to the condition, and that is how
Golden Cap, whosoever he may be."
"And what became of them?" asked Dorothy, who had been greatly
interested in the story.

"Quelala being the first owner of the Golden Cap," replied the Monkey,
"he was the first to lay his wishes upon us.  As his bride could not
bear the sight of us, he called us all to him in the forest after he
again set eyes on a Winged Monkey, which we were glad to do, for we

hands of the Wicked Witch of the West, who made us enslave the Winkies,
Golden Cap is yours, and three times you have the right to lay your
wishes upon us."

green, shining walls of the Emerald City before them.  She wondered at
the rapid flight of the Monkeys, but was glad the journey was over.

"That was a good ride," said the little girl.

"Yes, and a quick way out of our troubles," replied the Lion.  "How
lucky it was you brought away that wonderful Cap!"



  15.  The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible


The four travelers walked up to the great gate of Emerald City and rang
the bell.  After ringing several times, it was opened by the same
Guardian of the Gates they had met before.

"What! are you back again?" he asked, in surprise.
"Do you not see us?" answered the Scarecrow.

"But I thought you had gone to visit the Wicked Witch of the West."




"Melted!  Well, that is good news, indeed," said the man.  "Who melted

"It was Dorothy," said the Lion gravely.

"Good gracious!" exclaimed the man, and he bowed very low indeed before
Then he led them into his little room and locked the spectacles from
the great box on all their eyes, just as he had done before.  Afterward
they passed on through the gate into the Emerald City.  When the people
heard from the Guardian of the Gates that Dorothy had melted the Wicked
Witch of the West, they all gathered around the travelers and followed

The soldier with the green whiskers was still on guard before the door,
green girl, who showed each of them to their old rooms at once, so they
might rest until the Great Oz was ready to receive them.

but Oz made no reply.  They thought the Great Wizard would send for
them at once, but he did not.  They had no word from him the next day,
at last they grew vexed that Oz should treat them in so poor a fashion,
after sending them to undergo hardships and slavery.  So the Scarecrow
he did not let them in to see him at once they would call the Winged
Monkeys to help them, and find out whether he kept his promises or not.
sent word for them to come to the Throne Room at four minutes after
nine o'clock the next morning.  He had once met the Winged Monkeys in
the Land of the West, and he did not wish to meet them again.

Oz had promised to bestow on him.  Dorothy fell asleep only once, and
then she dreamed she was in Kansas, where Aunt Em was telling her how
glad she was to have her little girl at home again.

came to them, and four minutes later they all went into the Throne Room
of the Great Oz.

had taken before, and all were greatly surprised when they looked about
and saw no one at all in the room.  They kept close to the door and
closer to one another, for the stillness of the empty room was more
Presently they heard a solemn Voice, that seemed to come from somewhere
"I am Oz, the Great and Terrible.  Why do you seek me?"

They looked again in every part of the room, and then, seeing no one,

"I am everywhere," answered the Voice, "but to the eyes of common
you may converse with me."  Indeed, the Voice seemed just then to come
straight from the throne itself; so they walked toward it and stood in

"We have come to claim our promise, O Oz."

"What promise?" asked Oz.

"You promised to send me back to Kansas when the Wicked Witch was

"And you promised to give me brains," said the Scarecrow.

"And you promised to give me a heart," said the Tin Woodman.
"Is the Wicked Witch really destroyed?" asked the Voice, and Dorothy

"Yes," she answered, "I melted her with a bucket of water."

I must have time to think it over."

"You've had plenty of time already," said the Tin Woodman angrily.
"We shan't wait a day longer," said the Scarecrow.
"You must keep your promises to us!" exclaimed Dorothy.

The Lion thought it might be as well to frighten the Wizard, so he gave
away from him in alarm and tipped over the screen that stood in a
moment all of them were filled with wonder.  For they saw, standing in
and a wrinkled face, who seemed to be as much surprised as they were.
cried out, "Who are you?"

want me to."
Our friends looked at him in surprise and dismay.

"I thought Oz was a great Head," said Dorothy.


"And I thought Oz was a Ball of Fire," exclaimed the Lion.

"Making believe!" cried Dorothy.  "Are you not a Great Wizard?"

"Hush, my dear," he said.  "Don't speak so loud, or you will be


a humbug."
it pleased him.  "I am a humbug."
"But this is terrible," said the Tin Woodman.  "How shall I ever get my


"Or I my brains?" wailed the Scarecrow, wiping the tears from his eyes
with his coat sleeve.

out."
"No one knows it but you four--and myself," replied Oz.  "I have fooled
everyone so long that I thought I should never be found out.  It was a
great mistake my ever letting you into the Throne Room.  Usually I will
not see even my subjects, and so they believe I am something terrible."

that you appeared to me as a great Head?"

"That was one of my tricks," answered Oz.  "Step this way, please, and
I will tell you all about it."

He led the way to a small chamber in the rear of the Throne Room, and
they all followed him.  He pointed to one corner, in which lay the
painted face.

"This I hung from the ceiling by a wire," said Oz.  "I stood behind the
screen and pulled a thread, to make the eyes move and the mouth open."

"But how about the voice?" she inquired.

"Oh, I am a ventriloquist," said the little man.  "I can throw the
out of the Head.  Here are the other things I used to deceive you."  He
showed the Scarecrow the dress and the mask he had worn when he seemed
to be the lovely Lady.  And the Tin Woodman saw that his terrible Beast
was nothing but a lot of skins, sewn together, with slats to keep their
sides out.  As for the Ball of Fire, the false Wizard had hung that
also from the ceiling.  It was really a ball of cotton, but when oil

"Really," said the Scarecrow, "you ought to be ashamed of yourself for
being such a humbug."
was the only thing I could do.  Sit down, please, there are plenty of

So they sat down and listened while he told the following tale.

"Why, that isn't very far from Kansas!" cried Dorothy.
"No, but it's farther from here," he said, shaking his head at her
sadly.  "When I grew up I became a ventriloquist, and at that I was
ears and looked everywhere to see where she was.  "After a time,"


"A man who goes up in a balloon on circus day, so as to draw a crowd of

"Well, one day I went up in a balloon and the ropes got twisted, so
that I couldn't come down again.  It went way up above the clouds, so
away.  For a day and a night I traveled through the air, and on the
morning of the second day I awoke and found the balloon floating over a

in the midst of a strange people, who, seeing me come from the clouds,
they were afraid of me, and promised to do anything I wished them to.
it the Emerald City; and to make the name fit better I put green

"But isn't everything here green?" asked Dorothy.

"No more than in any other city," replied Oz; "but when you wear green
spectacles, why of course everything you see looks green to you.  The
Emerald City was built a great many years ago, for I was a young man
people have worn green glasses on their eyes so long that most of them
place, abounding in jewels and precious metals, and every good thing
that is needed to make one happy.  I have been good to the people, and
they like me; but ever since this Palace was built, I have shut myself

"One of my greatest fears was the Witches, for while I had no magical
powers at all I soon found out that the Witches were really able to do
wonderful things.  There were four of them in this country, and they
they would do me no harm; but the Witches of the East and West were
terribly wicked, and had they not thought I was more powerful than they
deadly fear of them for many years; so you can imagine how pleased I
was when I heard your house had fallen on the Wicked Witch of the East.
When you came to me, I was willing to promise anything if you would
only do away with the other Witch; but, now that you have melted her, I
am ashamed to say that I cannot keep my promises."


"Oh, no, my dear; I'm really a very good man, but I'm a very bad

"You don't need them.  You are learning something every day.  A baby
has brains, but it doesn't know much.  Experience is the only thing
that brings knowledge, and the longer you are on earth the more
experience you are sure to get."
unhappy unless you give me brains."

The false Wizard looked at him carefully.
with brains.  I cannot tell you how to use them, however; you must find
that out for yourself."

"Oh, thank you--thank you!" cried the Scarecrow.  "I'll find a way to
"But how about my courage?" asked the Lion anxiously.

"You have plenty of courage, I am sure," answered Oz.  "All you need is
confidence in yourself.  There is no living thing that is not afraid
when it faces danger.  The True courage is in facing danger when you
are afraid, and that kind of courage you have in plenty."

"Perhaps I have, but I'm scared just the same," said the Lion.  "I
shall really be very unhappy unless you give me the sort of courage
that makes one forget he is afraid."

"Very well, I will give you that sort of courage tomorrow," replied Oz.

heart.  It makes most people unhappy.  If you only knew it, you are in
luck not to have a heart."
"That must be a matter of opinion," said the Tin Woodman.  "For my
part, I will bear all the unhappiness without a murmur, if you will
"Very well," answered Oz meekly.  "Come to me tomorrow and you shall
well continue the part a little longer."

carry you over the desert.  In the meantime you shall all be treated as
you and obey your slightest wish.  There is only one thing I ask in
one I am a humbug."

They agreed to say nothing of what they had learned, and went back to
to Kansas, and if he did she was willing to forgive him everything.






"Congratulate me.  I am going to Oz to get my brains at last.  When I
return I shall be as other men are."

"It is kind of you to like a Scarecrow," he replied.  "But surely you
will think more of me when you hear the splendid thoughts my new brain
is going to turn out."  Then he said good-bye to them all in a cheerful
voice and went to the Throne Room, where he rapped upon the door.

"Come in," said Oz.

The Scarecrow went in and found the little man sitting down by the
window, engaged in deep thought.

"I have come for my brains," remarked the Scarecrow, a little uneasily.

"Oh, yes; sit down in that chair, please," replied Oz.  "You must
excuse me for taking your head off, but I shall have to do it in order
to put your brains in their proper place."

"That's all right," said the Scarecrow.  "You are quite welcome to take
again."

entered the back room and took up a measure of bran, which he mixed
with a great many pins and needles.  Having shaken them together
and stuffed the rest of the space with straw, to hold it in place.

When he had fastened the Scarecrow's head on his body again he said to

greatest wish, and having thanked Oz warmly he went back to his friends.

Dorothy looked at him curiously.  His head was quite bulged out at the
top with brains.
"How do you feel?" she asked.

"I feel wise indeed," he answered earnestly.  "When I get used to my
"Why are those needles and pins sticking out of your head?" asked the
Tin Woodman.

"That is proof that he is sharp," remarked the Lion.

walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.
"Come in," called Oz, and the Woodman entered and said, "I have come
for my heart."

"Very well," answered the little man.  "But I shall have to cut a hole
in your breast, so I can put your heart in the right place.  I hope it
won't hurt you."
"Oh, no," answered the Woodman.  "I shall not feel it at all."

So Oz brought a pair of tinsmith's shears and cut a small, square hole
in the left side of the Tin Woodman's breast.  Then, going to a chest
"Isn't it a beauty?" he asked.
"It is, indeed!" replied the Woodman, who was greatly pleased.  "But is

"Oh, very!" answered Oz.  He put the heart in the Woodman's breast and
then replaced the square of tin, soldering it neatly together where it
"There," said he; "now you have a heart that any man might be proud of.
I'm sorry I had to put a patch on your breast, but it really couldn't
be helped."
"Never mind the patch," exclaimed the happy Woodman.  "I am very
grateful to you, and shall never forget your kindness."

"Don't speak of it," replied Oz.

Then the Tin Woodman went back to his friends, who wished him every joy
on account of his good fortune.

The Lion now walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.

"Come in," said Oz.

"I have come for my courage," announced the Lion, entering the room.

"Very well," answered the little man; "I will get it for you."
He went to a cupboard and reaching up to a high shelf took down a
sniffed at it as if he did not like it, the Wizard said:

"What is it?" asked the Lion.

The Lion hesitated no longer, but drank till the dish was empty.

"How do you feel now?" asked Oz.

"Full of courage," replied the Lion, who went joyfully back to his
friends to tell them of his good fortune.

Oz, left to himself, smiled to think of his success in giving the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion exactly what they thought
they wanted.  "How can I help being a humbug," he said, "when all these
people make me do things that everybody knows can't be done?  It was
how it can be done."

17.  How the Balloon Was Launched


contented.  The Scarecrow told them there were wonderful thoughts in
his head; but he would not say what they were because he knew no one
he felt his heart rattling around in his breast; and he told Dorothy he
of nothing on earth, and would gladly face an army or a dozen of the
fierce Kalidahs.

Thus each of the little party was satisfied except Dorothy, who longed
On the fourth day, to her great joy, Oz sent for her, and when she
entered the Throne Room he greeted her pleasantly:

"Sit down, my dear; I think I have found the way to get you out of this
country."
"And back to Kansas?" she asked eagerly.
notion which way it lies.  But the first thing to do is to cross the
desert, and then it should be easy to find your way home."

"How can I cross the desert?" she inquired.
"Well, I'll tell you what I think," said the little man.  "You see,
when I came to this country it was in a balloon.  You also came through
across the desert will be through the air.  Now, it is quite beyond my
powers to make a cyclone; but I've been thinking the matter over, and I
believe I can make a balloon."

"How?" asked Dorothy.
keep the gas in it.  I have plenty of silk in the Palace, so it will be
no trouble to make the balloon.  But in all this country there is no

"If it won't float," remarked Dorothy, "it will be of no use to us."
"True," answered Oz.  "But there is another way to make it float, which
is to fill it with hot air.  Hot air isn't as good as gas, for if the
should be lost."

"Yes, of course," replied Oz.  "I am tired of being such a humbug.  If
I should go out of this Palace my people would soon discover I am not a
I'd much rather go back to Kansas with you and be in a circus again."


"Thank you," he answered.  "Now, if you will help me sew the silk
together, we will begin to work on our balloon."

then a strip of emerald green; for Oz had a fancy to make the balloon
in different shades of the color about them.  It took three days to sew
all the strips together, but when it was finished they had a big bag of
green silk more than twenty feet long.

Then Oz painted it on the inside with a coat of thin glue, to make it
airtight, after which he announced that the balloon was ready.

"But we must have a basket to ride in," he said.  So he sent the
soldier with the green whiskers for a big clothes basket, which he
fastened with many ropes to the bottom of the balloon.
When it was all ready, Oz sent word to his people that he was going to
news spread rapidly throughout the city and everyone came to see the

Oz ordered the balloon carried out in front of the Palace, and the
people gazed upon it with much curiosity.  The Tin Woodman had chopped
bottom of the balloon over the fire so that the hot air that arose from
out and rose into the air, until finally the basket just touched the
ground.

"I am now going away to make a visit.  While I am gone the Scarecrow
will rule over you.  I command you to obey him as you would me."

the ground, for the air within it was hot, and this made it so much
lighter in weight than the air without that it pulled hard to rise into

"Come, Dorothy!" cried the Wizard.  "Hurry up, or the balloon will fly
away."

kitten, and Dorothy at last found him.  She picked him up and ran
towards the balloon.

She was within a few steps of it, and Oz was holding out his hands to


"Good-bye!" shouted everyone, and all eyes were turned upward to where
the Wizard was riding in the basket, rising every moment farther and
And that was the last any of them ever saw of Oz, the Wonderful Wizard,
though he may have reached Omaha safely, and be there now, for all we
know.  But the people remembered him lovingly, and said to one another:
"Oz was always our friend.  When he was here he built for us this
beautiful Emerald City, and now he is gone he has left the Wise
Scarecrow to rule over us."

Wizard, and would not be comforted.


18.  Away to the South
again; but when she thought it all over she was glad she had not gone
up in a balloon.  And she also felt sorry at losing Oz, and so did her
if you will kindly wipe away my tears, so that I shall not rust."

"With pleasure," she answered, and brought a towel at once.  Then the
Tin Woodman wept for several minutes, and she watched the tears
carefully and wiped them away with the towel.  When he had finished, he
thanked her kindly and oiled himself thoroughly with his jeweled
oil-can, to guard against mishap.

The Scarecrow was now the ruler of the Emerald City, and although he
was not a Wizard the people were proud of him.  "For," they said,
"there is not another city in all the world that is ruled by a stuffed

The morning after the balloon had gone up with Oz, the four travelers
met in the Throne Room and talked matters over.  The Scarecrow sat in
the big throne and the others stood respectfully before him.
"We are not so unlucky," said the new ruler, "for this Palace and the
Emerald City belong to us, and we can do just as we please.  When I
remember that a short time ago I was up on a pole in a farmer's
cornfield, and that now I am the ruler of this beautiful City, I am
quite satisfied with my lot."

and, really, that was the only thing I wished in all the world."
"For my part, I am content in knowing I am as brave as any beast that

continued the Scarecrow, "we might all be happy together."
Kansas, and live with Aunt Em and Uncle Henry."

and needles began to stick out of his brains.  Finally he said:
"Why not call the Winged Monkeys, and ask them to carry you over the
When she brought it into the Throne Room she spoke the magic words, and
soon the band of Winged Monkeys flew in through the open window and
stood beside her.
"This is the second time you have called us," said the Monkey King,
bowing before the little girl.  "What do you wish?"
"I want you to fly with me to Kansas," said Dorothy.


"That cannot be done," he said.  "We belong to this country alone, and
shall be glad to serve you in any way in our power, but we cannot cross
the desert.  Good-bye."
And with another bow, the Monkey King spread his wings and flew away
Dorothy was ready to cry with disappointment.  "I have wasted the charm
of the Golden Cap to no purpose," she said, "for the Winged Monkeys
cannot help me."

"It is certainly too bad!" said the tender-hearted Woodman.


"Let us call in the soldier with the green whiskers," he said, "and ask
his advice."
So the soldier was summoned and entered the Throne Room timidly, for
while Oz was alive he never was allowed to come farther than the door.
"This little girl," said the Scarecrow to the soldier, "wishes to cross



"Glinda might," he suggested.

"Who is Glinda?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"The Witch of the South.  She is the most powerful of all the Witches,
and rules over the Quadlings.  Besides, her castle stands on the edge
of the desert, so she may know a way to cross it."

"Glinda is a Good Witch, isn't she?" asked the child.

to everyone.  I have heard that Glinda is a beautiful woman, who knows
how to keep young in spite of the many years she has lived."
"How can I get to her castle?" asked Dorothy.
"The road is straight to the South," he answered, "but it is said to be
a race of queer men who do not like strangers to cross their country.
For this reason none of the Quadlings ever come to the Emerald City."


to travel to the Land of the South and ask Glinda to help her.  For, of



so I also will go with her to the Land of the South."

"When shall we start?" asked the Scarecrow.


She lifted me from the pole in the cornfield and brought me to the
Emerald City.  So my good luck is all due to her, and I shall never
leave her until she starts back to Kansas for good and all."

"Thank you," said Dorothy gratefully.  "You are all very kind to me.
But I should like to start as soon as possible."

"We shall go tomorrow morning," returned the Scarecrow.  "So now let us
all get ready, for it will be a long journey."



walked with them as far as the gate.  When the Guardian of the Gate saw
to get into new trouble.  But he at once unlocked their spectacles,
carry with them.

"You are now our ruler," he said to the Scarecrow; "so you must come
back to us as soon as possible."

"I certainly shall if I am able," the Scarecrow replied; "but I must


"I have been very kindly treated in your lovely City, and everyone has
been good to me.  I cannot tell you how grateful I am."
"Don't try, my dear," he answered.  "We should like to keep you with
way."  He then opened the gate of the outer wall, and they walked forth
and started upon their journey.

The sun shone brightly as our friends turned their faces toward the
getting home, and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were glad to be of
use to her.  As for the Lion, he sniffed the fresh air with delight and
whisked his tail from side to side in pure joy at being in the country
again, while Toto ran around them and chased the moths and butterflies,
barking merrily all the time.

"City life does not agree with me at all," remarked the Lion, as they
walked along at a brisk pace.  "I have lost much flesh since I lived
there, and now I am anxious for a chance to show the other beasts how

could see was a mass of towers and steeples behind the green walls, and
high up above everything the spires and dome of the Palace of Oz.

"Oz was not such a bad Wizard, after all," said the Tin Woodman, as he
felt his heart rattling around in his breast.

"He knew how to give me brains, and very good brains, too," said the

"If Oz had taken a dose of the same courage he gave me," added the
Lion, "he would have been a brave man."
Dorothy said nothing.  Oz had not kept the promise he made her, but he
even if he was a bad Wizard.

The first day's journey was through the green fields and bright flowers
night on the grass, with nothing but the stars over them; and they
rested very well indeed.

In the morning they traveled on until they came to a thick wood.  There
was no way of going around it, for it seemed to extend to the right and
left as far as they could see; and, besides, they did not dare change
the direction of their journey for fear of getting lost.  So they
looked for the place where it would be easiest to get into the forest.
such wide-spreading branches that there was room for the party to pass
underneath.  So he walked forward to the tree, but just as he came
under the first branches they bent down and twined around him, and the
fellow travelers.
This did not hurt the Scarecrow, but it surprised him, and he looked
rather dizzy when Dorothy picked him up.

"Here is another space between the trees," called the Lion.

"This is strange," exclaimed Dorothy.  "What shall we do?"
"The trees seem to have made up their minds to fight us, and stop our

"I believe I will try it myself," said the Woodman, and shouldering his
axe, he marched up to the first tree that had handled the Scarecrow so
roughly.  When a big branch bent down to seize him the Woodman chopped
at it so fiercely that he cut it in two.  At once the tree began
shaking all its branches as if in pain, and the Tin Woodman passed
safely under it.
"Come on!" he shouted to the others.  "Be quick!"  They all ran forward
and passed under the tree without injury, except Toto, who was caught

made up their minds that only the first row of trees could bend down
their branches, and that probably these were the policemen of the
of it.

smooth, like the surface of a dish, and higher than their heads.

"What shall we do now?" asked Dorothy.

"I will make a ladder," said the Tin Woodman, "for we certainly must
climb over the wall."



20.  The Dainty China Country


While the Woodman was making a ladder from wood which he found in the
forest Dorothy lay down and slept, for she was tired by the long walk.
The Scarecrow watched the Woodman while he worked, and said to him:

"I cannot think why this wall is here, nor what it is made of."
Woodman.  "When we have climbed over it, we shall know what is on the
other side."

After a time the ladder was finished.  It looked clumsy, but the Tin
Woodman was sure it was strong and would answer their purpose.  The
ladder was ready.  The Scarecrow climbed up the ladder first, but he
was so awkward that Dorothy had to follow close behind and keep him
from falling off.  When he got his head over the top of the wall the

"Go on," exclaimed Dorothy.

wall, and Dorothy put her head over and cried, "Oh, my!" just as the

Then Toto came up, and immediately began to bark, but Dorothy made him
be still.

both of them cried, "Oh, my!" as soon as they looked over the wall.

shining and white as the bottom of a big platter.  Scattered around
were many houses made entirely of china and painted in the brightest
colors.  These houses were quite small, the biggest of them reaching
only as high as Dorothy's waist.  There were also pretty little barns,
with china fences around them; and many cows and sheep and horses and
pigs and chickens, all made of china, were standing about in groups.
knee breeches with pink and yellow and blue stripes down them, and
golden buckles on their shoes; and princes with jeweled crowns upon
their heads, wearing ermine robes and satin doublets; and funny clowns
pointed caps.  And, strangest of all, these people were all made of
china, even to their clothes, and were so small that the tallest of
them was no higher than Dorothy's knee.

No one did so much as look at the travelers at first, except one little
purple china dog with an extra-large head, which came to the wall and
"How shall we get down?" asked Dorothy.
They found the ladder so heavy they could not pull it up, so the
Scarecrow fell off the wall and the others jumped down upon him so that
the hard floor would not hurt their feet.  Of course they took pains
safely down they picked up the Scarecrow, whose body was quite
flattened out, and patted his straw into shape again.

"We must cross this strange place in order to get to the other side,"
said Dorothy, "for it would be unwise for us to go any other way except
due South."

They began walking through the country of the china people, and the
they drew near, the cow suddenly gave a kick and kicked over the stool,
the pail, and even the milkmaid herself, and all fell on the china
ground with a great clatter.

Dorothy was shocked to see that the cow had broken her leg off, and
that the pail was lying in several small pieces, while the poor

"There!" cried the milkmaid angrily.  "See what you have done!  My cow
it glued on again.  What do you mean by coming here and frightening my
cow?"

"I'm very sorry," returned Dorothy.  "Please forgive us."

on three legs.  As she left them the milkmaid cast many reproachful
glances over her shoulder at the clumsy strangers, holding her nicked
elbow close to her side.

may hurt these pretty little people so they will never get over it."
A little farther on Dorothy met a most beautifully dressed young
Princess, who stopped short as she saw the strangers and started to run

"Don't chase me!  Don't chase me!"


"if I run I may fall down and break myself."

"But could you not be mended?" asked the girl.

"Oh, yes; but one is never so pretty after being mended, you know,"
replied the Princess.

"Now there is Mr. Joker, one of our clowns," continued the china lady,
often that he is mended in a hundred places, and doesn't look at all
pretty.  Here he comes now, so you can see for yourself."

could see that in spite of his pretty clothes of red and yellow and
green he was completely covered with cracks, running every which way
and showing plainly that he had been mended in many places.

The Clown put his hands in his pockets, and after puffing out his
cheeks and nodding his head at them saucily, he said:
  "My lady fair,
     Why do you stare
   At poor old Mr. Joker?

strangers, and should be treated with respect?"

stood upon his head.

considerably cracked in his head, and that makes him foolish."
"Oh, I don't mind him a bit," said Dorothy.  "But you are so
mantel?  I could carry you in my basket."

"That would make me very unhappy," answered the china Princess.  "You
see, here in our country we live contentedly, and can talk and move
around as we please.  But whenever any of us are taken away our joints
cabinets and drawing-room tables, but our lives are much pleasanter
here in our own country."
"Good-bye," replied the Princess.

They walked carefully through the china country.  The little animals
and all the people scampered out of their way, fearing the strangers
would break them, and after an hour or so the travelers reached the
other side of the country and came to another china wall.

gathered his legs under him and jumped on the wall; but just as he
pieces.
"That was too bad," said Dorothy, "but really I think we were lucky in
not doing these little people more harm than breaking a cow's leg and a
church.  They are all so brittle!"

"They are, indeed," said the Scarecrow, "and I am thankful I am made of
straw and cannot be easily damaged.  There are worse things in the
world than being a Scarecrow."




After climbing down from the china wall the travelers found themselves
in a disagreeable country, full of bogs and marshes and covered with
tall, rank grass.  It was difficult to walk without falling into muddy
holes, for the grass was so thick that it hid them from sight.
However, by carefully picking their way, they got safely along until
they reached solid ground.  But here the country seemed wilder than
entered another forest, where the trees were bigger and older than any
they had ever seen.
"This forest is perfectly delightful," declared the Lion, looking
around him with joy.  "Never have I seen a more beautiful place."

"It seems gloomy," said the Scarecrow.
rich and green the moss is that clings to these old trees.  Surely no
wild beast could wish a pleasanter home."
"Perhaps there are wild beasts in the forest now," said Dorothy.

"I suppose there are," returned the Lion, "but I do not see any of them

They walked through the forest until it became too dark to go any
Woodman and the Scarecrow kept watch over them as usual.

When morning came, they started again.  Before they had gone far they
heard a low rumble, as of the growling of many wild animals.  Toto
kept along the well-trodden path until they came to an opening in the
There were tigers and elephants and bears and wolves and foxes and all
the others in the natural history, and for a moment Dorothy was afraid.
up to the Lion and bowed, saying:
"Welcome, O King of Beasts!  You have come in good time to fight our
enemy and bring peace to all the animals of the forest once more."

has lately come into this forest.  It is a most tremendous monster,
as a tree trunk.  It has eight of these long legs, and as the monster
crawls through the forest he seizes an animal with a leg and drags it
to his mouth, where he eats it as a spider does a fly.  Not one of us
is safe while this fierce creature is alive, and we had called a
meeting to decide how to take care of ourselves when you came among us."
"Are there any other lions in this forest?" he asked.

besides, they were none of them nearly so large and brave as you."

"If I put an end to your enemy, will you bow down to me and obey me as
King of the Forest?" inquired the Lion.

"We will do that gladly," returned the tiger; and all the other beasts
roared with a mighty roar: "We will!"

"Yonder, among the oak trees," said the tiger, pointing with his
forefoot.
"Take good care of these friends of mine," said the Lion, "and I will
go at once to fight the monster."
He bade his comrades good-bye and marched proudly away to do battle
with the enemy.

The great spider was lying asleep when the Lion found him, and it
looked so ugly that its foe turned up his nose in disgust.  Its legs
slender as a wasp's waist.  This gave the Lion a hint of the best way
than awake, he gave a great spring and landed directly upon the
sharp claws, he knocked the spider's head from its body.  Jumping down,
quite dead.

The Lion went back to the opening where the beasts of the forest were
waiting for him and said proudly:
"You need fear your enemy no longer."
Then the beasts bowed down to the Lion as their King, and he promised
to come back and rule over them as soon as Dorothy was safely on her
way to Kansas.



22.  The Country of the Quadlings

The four travelers passed through the rest of the forest in safety, and
when they came out from its gloom saw before them a steep hill, covered
from top to bottom with great pieces of rock.
the hill, nevertheless."

So he led the way and the others followed.  They had nearly reached the
first rock when they heard a rough voice cry out, "Keep back!"
Then a head showed itself over the rock and the same voice said, "This
hill belongs to us, and we don't allow anyone to cross it."
country of the Quadlings."
the rock the strangest man the travelers had ever seen.

He was quite short and stout and had a big head, which was flat at the
top and supported by a thick neck full of wrinkles.  But he had no arms
creature could prevent them from climbing the hill.  So he said, "I'm
you like it or not," and he walked boldly forward.
A chorus of boisterous laughter came from the other rocks, and Dorothy
saw hundreds of the armless Hammer-Heads upon the hillside, one behind
every rock.
The Lion became quite angry at the laughter caused by the Scarecrow's
the hill.

Again a head shot swiftly out, and the great Lion went rolling down the
Dorothy ran down and helped the Scarecrow to his feet, and the Lion
came up to her, feeling rather bruised and sore, and said, "It is
useless to fight people with shooting heads; no one can withstand them."

"What can we do, then?" she asked.
"Call the Winged Monkeys," suggested the Tin Woodman.  "You have still
the right to command them once more."

"Very well," she answered, and putting on the Golden Cap she uttered
the magic words.  The Monkeys were as prompt as ever, and in a few

"What are your commands?" inquired the King of the Monkeys, bowing low.

"Carry us over the hill to the country of the Quadlings," answered the
girl.

vexation, and shot their heads high in the air, but they could not
reach the Winged Monkeys, which carried Dorothy and her comrades safely
over the hill and set them down in the beautiful country of the
Quadlings.

"so good-bye and good luck to you."
"Good-bye, and thank you very much," returned the girl; and the Monkeys

The country of the Quadlings seemed rich and happy.  There was field
upon field of ripening grain, with well-paved roads running between,
and pretty rippling brooks with strong bridges across them.  The fences
country of the Munchkins.  The Quadlings themselves, who were short and
fat and looked chubby and good-natured, were dressed all in red, which
showed bright against the green grass and the yellowing grain.
The Monkeys had set them down near a farmhouse, and the four travelers
wife, and when Dorothy asked for something to eat the woman gave them
all a good dinner, with three kinds of cake and four kinds of cookies,

"How far is it to the Castle of Glinda?" asked the child.

"It is not a great way," answered the farmer's wife.  "Take the road to
the South and you will soon reach it."

Thanking the good woman, they started afresh and walked by the fields
and across the pretty bridges until they saw before them a very
beautiful Castle.  Before the gates were three young girls, dressed in
handsome red uniforms trimmed with gold braid; and as Dorothy
approached, one of them said to her:

"Why have you come to the South Country?"

"To see the Good Witch who rules here," she answered.  "Will you take

They told who they were, and the girl soldier went into the Castle.
After a few moments she came back to say that Dorothy and the others




23.  Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy's Wish

Lion shook the dust out of his mane, and the Scarecrow patted himself
into his best shape, and the Woodman polished his tin and oiled his
When they were all quite presentable they followed the soldier girl
dress was pure white but her eyes were blue, and they looked kindly
upon the little girl.

"What can I do for you, my child?" she asked.
wonderful adventures they had met with.
Em will surely think something dreadful has happened to me, and that
year than they were last, I am sure Uncle Henry cannot afford it."

Glinda leaned forward and kissed the sweet, upturned face of the loving

"Bless your dear heart," she said, "I am sure I can tell you of a way
"Willingly!" exclaimed Dorothy; "indeed, it is of no use to me now, and
when you have it you can command the Winged Monkeys three times."


Scarecrow, "What will you do when Dorothy has left us?"

"I will return to the Emerald City," he replied, "for Oz has made me
its ruler and the people like me.  The only thing that worries me is
how to cross the hill of the Hammer-Heads."

"By means of the Golden Cap I shall command the Winged Monkeys to carry
you to the gates of the Emerald City," said Glinda, "for it would be a
shame to deprive the people of so wonderful a ruler."

"Am I really wonderful?" asked the Scarecrow.

"You are unusual," replied Glinda.

Dorothy leaves this country?"
He leaned on his axe and thought a moment.  Then he said, "The Winkies
Witch died.  I am fond of the Winkies, and if I could get back again to
the Country of the West, I should like nothing better than to rule over
them forever."

"My second command to the Winged Monkeys," said Glinda "will be that
they carry you safely to the land of the Winkies.  Your brain may not
be so large to look at as those of the Scarecrow, but you are really

Then the Witch looked at the big, shaggy Lion and asked, "When Dorothy

"Over the hill of the Hammer-Heads," he answered, "lies a grand old
I could only get back to this forest, I would pass my life very happily
there."
Golden Cap, I shall give it to the King of the Monkeys, that he and his
band may thereafter be free for evermore."
The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion now thanked the Good
Witch earnestly for her kindness; and Dorothy exclaimed:

"You are certainly as good as you are beautiful!  But you have not yet
told me how to get back to Kansas."

"If you had known their power you could have gone back to your Aunt Em
the very first day you came to this country."

"But then I should not have had my wonderful brains!" cried the
cornfield."

might have stood and rusted in the forest till the end of the world."


"This is all true," said Dorothy, "and I am glad I was of use to these
good friends.  But now that each of them has had what he most desired,
and each is happy in having a kingdom to rule besides, I think I should
like to go back to Kansas."

any place in the world in three steps, and each step will be made in
three times and command the shoes to carry you wherever you wish to go."

"If that is so," said the child joyfully, "I will ask them to carry me

She threw her arms around the Lion's neck and kissed him, patting his
big head tenderly.  Then she kissed the Tin Woodman, who was weeping in
body of the Scarecrow in her arms instead of kissing his painted face,
and found she was crying herself at this sorrowful parting from her
loving comrades.

Glinda the Good stepped down from her ruby throne to give the little
girl a good-bye kiss, and Dorothy thanked her for all the kindness she
had shown to her friends and herself.
Dorothy now took Toto up solemnly in her arms, and having said one last
saying:

"Take me home to Aunt Em!"

Instantly she was whirling through the air, so swiftly that all she
could see or feel was the wind whistling past her ears.

The Silver Shoes took but three steps, and then she stopped so suddenly
