    produced by sue asscher      the republic  by plato   translated by benjamin jowett   note: the republic by plato, jowett, etext #150     introduction and analysis. EOS the republic of plato is the longest of his works with the exception of the laws, and is certainly the greatest of them. EOS but no other dialogue of plato has the same largeness of view and the same perfection of style; no other shows an equal knowledge of the world, or contains more of those thoughts which are new as well as old, and not of one age only but of all. EOS nowhere in plato is there a deeper irony or a greater wealth of humour or imagery, or more dramatic power. EOS nor in any other of his writings is the attempt made to interweave life and speculation, or to connect politics with philosophy. EOS the republic is the centre around which the other dialogues may be grouped; here philosophy reaches the highest point (cp, especially in books v, vi, vii) to which ancient thinkers ever attained. EOS he was the greatest metaphysical genius whom the world has seen; and in him, more than in any other ancient thinker, the germs of future knowledge are contained. EOS the principles of definition, the law of contradiction, the fallacy of arguing in a circle, the distinction between the essence and accidents of a thing or notion, between means and ends, between causes and conditions; also the division of the mind into the rational, concupiscent, and irascible elements, or of pleasures and desires into necessary and unnecessary--these and other great forms of thought are all of them to be found in the republic, and were probably first invented by plato. EOS the greatest of all logical truths, and the one of which writers on philosophy are most apt to lose sight, the difference between words and things, has been most strenuously insisted on by him (cp. EOS ; cratyl. EOS 435, 436 ff), although he has not always avoided the confusion of them in his own writings (e.g. EOS rep.). EOS but he does not bind up truth in logical formulae,--logic is still veiled in metaphysics; and the science which he imagines to 'contemplate all truth and all existence' is very unlike the doctrine of the syllogism which aristotle claims to have discovered (soph. EOS elenchi, 33. EOS 18). EOS neither must we forget that the republic is but the third part of a still larger design which was to have included an ideal history of athens, as well as a political and physical philosophy. EOS the fragment of the critias has given birth to a world-famous fiction, second only in importance to the tale of troy and the legend of arthur; and is said as a fact to have inspired some of the early navigators of the sixteenth century. EOS this mythical tale, of which the subject was a history of the wars of the athenians against the island of atlantis, is supposed to be founded upon an unfinished poem of solon, to which it would have stood in the same relation as the writings of the logographers to the poems of homer. EOS 25 c), intended to represent the conflict of persia and hellas. EOS we may judge from the noble commencement of the timaeus, from the fragment of the critias itself, and from the third book of the laws, in what manner plato would have treated this high argument. EOS we can only guess why the great design was abandoned; perhaps because plato became sensible of some incongruity in a fictitious history, or because he had lost his interest in it, or because advancing years forbade the completion of it; and we may please ourselves with the fancy that had this imaginary narrative ever been finished, we should have found plato himself sympathising with the struggle for hellenic independence (cp. EOS laws  iii. EOS or, more probably, attributing the victory to the ancient good order of athens and to the favor of apollo and athene (cp. EOS introd. EOS to critias). EOS again, plato may be regarded as the 'captain' ('arhchegoz') or leader of a goodly band of followers; for in the republic is to be found the original of cicero's de republica, of st. augustine's city of god, of the utopia of sir thomas more, and of the numerous other imaginary states which are framed upon the same model. EOS the extent to which aristotle or the aristotelian school were indebted to him in the politics has been little recognised, and the recognition is the more necessary because it is not made by aristotle himself. EOS of the greek authors who at the renaissance brought a new life into the world plato has had the greatest influence. EOS the republic of plato is also the first treatise upon education, of which the writings of milton and locke, rousseau, jean paul, and goethe are the legitimate descendants. EOS even the fragments of his words when 'repeated at second-hand' (symp. EOS 215 d) have in all ages ravished the hearts of men, who have seen reflected in them their own higher nature. EOS he is the father of idealism in philosophy, in politics, in literature. EOS the argument of the republic is the search after justice, the nature of which is first hinted at by cephalus, the just and blameless old man--then discussed on the basis of proverbial morality by socrates and polemarchus--then caricatured by thrasymachus and partially explained by socrates--reduced to an abstraction by glaucon and adeimantus, and having become invisible in the individual reappears at length in the ideal state which is constructed by socrates. EOS the first care of the rulers is to be education, of which an outline is drawn after the old hellenic model, providing only for an improved religion and morality, and more simplicity in music and gymnastic, a manlier strain of poetry, and greater harmony of the individual and the state. EOS we are thus led on to the conception of a higher state, in which 'no man calls anything his own,' and in which there is neither 'marrying nor giving in marriage,' and 'kings are philosophers' and 'philosophers are kings;' and there is another and higher education, intellectual as well as moral and religious, of science as well as of art, and not of youth only but of the whole of life. EOS such a state is hardly to be realized in this world and quickly degenerates. EOS to the perfect ideal succeeds the government of the soldier and the lover of honour, this again declining into democracy, and democracy into tyranny, in an imaginary but regular order having not much resemblance to the actual facts. EOS when 'the wheel has come full circle' we do not begin again with a new period of human life; but we have passed from the best to the worst, and there we end. EOS and the idea of the state is supplemented by the revelation of a future life. EOS the division into books, like all similar divisions (cp. EOS ii. EOS p 1. EOS ), is probably later than the age of plato. EOS the second division (2) includes the remainder of the second and the whole of the third and fourth books, which are mainly occupied with the construction of the first state and the first education. EOS the third division (3) consists of the fifth, sixth, and seventh books, in which philosophy rather than justice is the subject of enquiry, and the second state is constructed on principles of communism and ruled by philosophers, and the contemplation of the idea of good takes the place of the social and political virtues. EOS in the eighth and ninth books (4) the perversions of states and of the individuals who correspond to them are reviewed in succession; and the nature of pleasure and the principle of tyranny are further analysed in the individual man. EOS the tenth book (5) is the conclusion of the whole, in which the relations of philosophy to poetry are finally determined, and the happiness of the citizens in this life, which has now been assured, is crowned by the vision of another. EOS or a more general division into two parts may be adopted; the first (books i - iv) containing the description of a state framed generally in accordance with hellenic notions of religion and morality, while in the second (books v - x) the hellenic state is transformed into an ideal kingdom of philosophy, of which all other governments are the perversions. EOS these two points of view are really opposed, and the opposition is only veiled by the genius of plato. EOS the republic, like the phaedrus (see introduction to phaedrus), is an imperfect whole; the higher light of philosophy breaks through the regularity of the hellenic temple, which at last fades away into the heavens. EOS whether this imperfection of structure arises from an enlargement of the plan; or from the imperfect reconcilement in the writer's own mind of the struggling elements of thought which are now first brought together by him; or, perhaps, from the composition of the work at different times--are questions, like the similar question about the iliad and the odyssey, which are worth asking, but which cannot have a distinct answer. EOS there is no absurdity in supposing that he may have laid his labours aside for a time, or turned from one work to another; and such interruptions would be more likely to occur in the case of a long than of a short writing. EOS but, on the other hand, the seeming discrepancies of the republic may only arise out of the discordant elements which the philosopher has attempted to unite in a single whole, perhaps without being himself able to recognise the inconsistency which is obvious to us. EOS for there is a judgment of after ages which few great writers have ever been able to anticipate for themselves. EOS they do not perceive the want of connexion in their own writings, or the gaps in their systems which are visible enough to those who come after them. EOS in the beginnings of literature and philosophy, amid the first efforts of thought and language, more inconsistencies occur than now, when the paths of speculation are well worn and the meaning of words precisely defined. EOS for consistency, too, is the growth of time; and some of the greatest creations of the human mind have been wanting in unity. EOS tried by this test, several of the platonic dialogues, according to our modern ideas, appear to be defective, but the deficiency is no proof that they were composed at different times or by different hands. EOS and the supposition that the republic was written uninterruptedly and by a continuous effort is in some degree confirmed by the numerous references from one part of the work to another. EOS morgenstern and others have asked whether the definition of justice, which is the professed aim, or the construction of the state is the principal argument of the work. EOS the answer is, that the two blend in one, and are two faces of the same truth; for justice is the order of the state, and the state is the visible embodiment of justice under the conditions of human society. EOS the one is the soul and the other is the body, and the greek ideal of the state, as of the individual, is a fair mind in a fair body. EOS in hegelian phraseology the state is the reality of which justice is the idea. EOS or, described in christian language, the kingdom of god is within, and yet developes into a church or external kingdom; 'the house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens,' is reduced to the proportions of an earthly building. EOS or, to use a platonic image, justice and the state are the warp and the woof which run through the whole texture. EOS and when the constitution of the state is completed, the conception of justice is not dismissed, but reappears under the same or different names throughout the work, both as the inner law of the individual soul, and finally as the principle of rewards and punishments in another life. EOS the virtues are based on justice, of which common honesty in buying and selling is the shadow, and justice is based on the idea of good, which is the harmony of the world, and is reflected both in the institutions of states and in motions of the heavenly bodies (cp. EOS tim. EOS 47). EOS the timaeus, which takes up the political rather than the ethical side of the republic, and is chiefly occupied with hypotheses concerning the outward world, yet contains many indications that the same law is supposed to reign over the state, over nature, and over man. EOS too much, however, has been made of this question both in ancient and modern times. EOS there is a stage of criticism in which all works, whether of nature or of art, are referred to design. EOS now in ancient writings, and indeed in literature generally, there remains often a large element which was not comprehended in the original design. EOS for the plan grows under the author's hand; new thoughts occur to him in the act of writing; he has not worked out the argument to the end before he begins. EOS the reader who seeks to find some one idea under which the whole may be conceived, must necessarily seize on the vaguest and most general. EOS thus stallbaum, who is dissatisfied with the ordinary explanations of the argument of the republic, imagines himself to have found the true argument 'in the representation of human life in a state perfected by justice, and governed according to the idea of good.' EOS what kind or degree of unity is to be sought after in a building, in the plastic arts, in poetry, in prose, is a problem which has to be determined relatively to the subject-matter. EOS the introduction to the phaedrus). EOS is not the republic the vehicle of three or four great truths which, to plato's own mind, are most naturally represented in the form of the state? EOS just as in the jewish prophets the reign of messiah, or 'the day of the lord,' or the suffering servant or people of god, or the 'sun of righteousness with healing in his wings' only convey, to us at least, their great spiritual ideals, so through the greek state plato reveals to us his own thoughts about divine perfection, which is the idea of good--like the sun in the visible world;--about human perfection, which is justice--about education beginning in youth and continuing in later years--about poets and sophists and tyrants who are the false teachers and evil rulers of mankind--about 'the world' which is the embodiment of them--about a kingdom which exists nowhere upon earth but is laid up in heaven to be the pattern and rule of human life. EOS no such inspired creation is at unity with itself, any more than the clouds of heaven when the sun pierces through them. EOS it is not all on the same plane; it easily passes from ideas to myths and fancies, from facts to figures of speech. EOS it is not prose but poetry, at least a great part of it, and ought not to be judged by the rules of logic or the probabilities of history. EOS the writer is not fashioning his ideas into an artistic whole; they take possession of him and are too much for him. EOS the great science of dialectic or the organisation of ideas has no real content; but is only a type of the method or spirit in which the higher knowledge is to be pursued by the spectator of all time and all existence. EOS it is in the fifth, sixth, and seventh books that plato reaches the 'summit of speculation,' and these, although they fail to satisfy the requirements of a modern thinker, may therefore be regarded as the most important, as they are also the most original, portions of the work. EOS ), only aims at general probability. EOS whether all the persons mentioned in the republic could ever have met at any one time is not a difficulty which would have occurred to an athenian reading the work forty years later, or to plato himself at the time of writing (any more than to shakespeare respecting one of his own dramas); and need not greatly trouble us now. EOS hermann, that glaucon and adeimantus are not the brothers but the uncles of plato (cp. EOS apol. EOS 34 a), or the fancy of stallbaum that plato intentionally left anachronisms indicating the dates at which some of his dialogues were written. EOS the main discussion is carried on by socrates, glaucon, and adeimantus. EOS he is the pattern of an old man who has almost done with life, and is at peace with himself and with all mankind. EOS he feels that he is drawing nearer to the world below, and seems to linger around the memory of the past. EOS he is eager that socrates should come to visit him, fond of the poetry of the last generation, happy in the consciousness of a well-spent life, glad at having escaped from the tyranny of youthful lusts. EOS his love of conversation, his affection, his indifference to riches, even his garrulity, are interesting traits of character. EOS he is not one of those who have nothing to say, because their whole mind has been absorbed in making money. EOS yet he acknowledges that riches have the advantage of placing men above the temptation to dishonesty or falsehood. EOS who better suited to raise the question of justice than cephalus, whose life might seem to be the expression of it? EOS the moderation with which old age is pictured by cephalus as a very tolerable portion of existence is characteristic, not only of him, but of greek feeling generally, and contrasts with the exaggeration of cicero in the de senectute. EOS the evening of life is described by plato in the most expressive manner, yet with the fewest possible touches. EOS as cicero remarks (ep. EOS ad attic. EOS iv. EOS lysimachus in the laches). EOS his 'son and heir' polemarchus has the frankness and impetuousness of youth; he is for detaining socrates by force in the opening scene, and will not 'let him off' on the subject of women and children. EOS aristoph. EOS but after this he has no more to say; the answers which he makes are only elicited from him by the dialectic of socrates. EOS he has not yet experienced the influence of the sophists like glaucon and adeimantus, nor is he sensible of the necessity of refuting them; he belongs to the pre-socratic or pre-dialectical age. EOS he is incapable of arguing, and is bewildered by socrates to such a degree that he does not know what he is saying. EOS he is made to admit that justice is a thief, and that the virtues follow the analogy of the arts. EOS from his brother lysias (contra eratosth.) EOS we learn that he fell a victim to the thirty tyrants, but no allusion is here made to his fate, nor to the circumstance that cephalus and his family were of syracusan origin, and had migrated from thurii to athens. EOS he is vain and blustering, refusing to discourse unless he is paid, fond of making an oration, and hoping thereby to escape the inevitable socrates; but a mere child in argument, and unable to foresee that the next 'move' (to use a platonic expression) will 'shut him up.' EOS he has reached the stage of framing general notions, and in this respect is in advance of cephalus and polemarchus. EOS but he is incapable of defending them in a discussion, and vainly tries to cover his confusion with banter and insolence. EOS his determination to cram down their throats, or put 'bodily into their souls' his own words, elicits a cry of horror from socrates. EOS the state of his temper is quite as worthy of remark as the process of the argument. EOS when attacked by glaucon he is humorously protected by socrates 'as one who has never been his enemy and is now his friend.' EOS from cicero and quintilian and from aristotle's rhetoric we learn that the sophist whom plato has made so ridiculous was a man of note whose writings were preserved in later ages. EOS the play on his name which was made by his contemporary herodicus (aris. EOS rhet. EOS when thrasymachus has been silenced, the two principal respondents, glaucon and adeimantus, appear on the scene: here, as in greek tragedy (cp. EOS introd. EOS at first sight the two sons of ariston may seem to wear a family likeness, like the two friends simmias and cebes in the phaedo. EOS but on a nearer examination of them the similarity vanishes, and they are seen to be distinct characters. EOS glaucon is the impetuous youth who can 'just never have enough of fechting' (cp. EOS the character of him in xen. EOS mem. EOS iii. EOS 6); the man of pleasure who is acquainted with the mysteries of love; the 'juvenis qui gaudet canibus,' and who improves the breed of animals; the lover of art and music who has all the experiences of youthful life. EOS it is glaucon who seizes what may be termed the ludicrous relation of the philosopher to the world, to whom a state of simplicity is 'a city of pigs,' who is always prepared with a jest when the argument offers him an opportunity, and who is ever ready to second the humour of socrates and to appreciate the ridiculous, whether in the connoisseurs of music, or in the lovers of theatricals, or in the fantastic behaviour of the citizens of democracy. EOS his weaknesses are several times alluded to by socrates, who, however, will not allow him to be attacked by his brother adeimantus. EOS he is a soldier, and, like adeimantus, has been distinguished at the battle of megara (anno 456? EOS )...the character of adeimantus is deeper and graver, and the profounder objections are commonly put into his mouth. EOS adeimantus pursues the argument further. EOS glaucon has more of the liveliness and quick sympathy of youth; adeimantus has the maturer judgment of a grown-up man of the world. EOS it is adeimantus again who volunteers the criticism of common sense on the socratic method of argument, and who refuses to let socrates pass lightly over the question of women and children. EOS thus in a succession of characters plato represents the successive stages of morality, beginning with the athenian gentleman of the olden time, who is followed by the practical man of that day regulating his life by proverbs and saws; to him succeeds the wild generalization of the sophists, and lastly come the young disciples of the great teacher, who know the sophistical arguments but will not be convinced by them, and desire to go deeper into the nature of things. EOS these too, like cephalus, polemarchus, thrasymachus, are clearly distinguished from one another. EOS neither in the republic, nor in any other dialogue of plato, is a single character repeated. EOS the delineation of socrates in the republic is not wholly consistent. EOS he is ironical, provoking, questioning, the old enemy of the sophists, ready to put on the mask of silenus as well as to argue seriously. EOS but in the sixth book his enmity towards the sophists abates; he acknowledges that they are the representatives rather than the corrupters of the world. EOS in one passage plato himself seems to intimate that the time had now come for socrates, who had passed his whole life in philosophy, to give his own opinion and not to be always repeating the notions of other men. EOS mem. EOS ; phaedo); and a deep thinker like him, in his thirty or forty years of public teaching, could hardly have failed to touch on the nature of family relations, for which there is also some positive evidence in the memorabilia (mem.) EOS the socratic method is nominally retained; and every inference is either put into the mouth of the respondent or represented as the common discovery of him and socrates. EOS the method of enquiry has passed into a method of teaching in which by the help of interlocutors the same thesis is looked at from various points of view. EOS the nature of the process is truly characterized by glaucon, when he describes himself as a companion who is not good for much in an investigation, but can see what he is shown, and may, perhaps, give the answer to a question more fluently than another. EOS apol. EOS his favorite oath is retained, and a slight mention is made of the daemonium, or internal sign, which is alluded to by socrates as a phenomenon peculiar to himself. EOS a real element of socratic teaching, which is more prominent in the republic than in any of the other dialogues of plato, is the use of example and illustration (greek): 'let us apply the test of common instances.' EOS 'you,' says adeimantus, ironically, in the sixth book, 'are so unaccustomed to speak in images.' EOS the noble captain and the ship and the true pilot in book vi are a figure of the relation of the people to the philosophers in the state which has been described. EOS other figures, such as the dog, or the marriage of the portionless maiden, or the drones and wasps in the eighth and ninth books, also form links of connexion in long passages, or are used to recall previous discussions. EOS plato is most true to the character of his master when he describes him as 'not of this world.' EOS and with this representation of him the ideal state and the other paradoxes of the republic are quite in accordance, though they cannot be shown to have been speculations of socrates. EOS to him, as to other great teachers both philosophical and religious, when they looked upward, the world seemed to be the embodiment of error and evil. EOS and even in socrates himself the sterner judgement of the multitude at times passes into a sort of ironical pity or love. EOS men in general are incapable of philosophy, and are therefore at enmity with the philosopher; but their misunderstanding of him is unavoidable: for they have never seen him as he truly is in his own image; they are only acquainted with artificial systems possessing no native force of truth--words which admit of many applications. EOS their leaders have nothing to measure with, and are therefore ignorant of their own stature. EOS this moderation towards those who are in error is one of the most characteristic features of socrates in the republic. EOS in all the different representations of socrates, whether of xenophon or plato, and amid the differences of the earlier or later dialogues, he always retains the character of the unwearied and disinterested seeker after truth, without which he would have ceased to be socrates. EOS book i. the republic opens with a truly greek scene--a festival in honour of the goddess bendis which is held in the piraeus; to this is added the promise of an equestrian torch-race in the evening. EOS 'you should come to me oftener, socrates, for i am too old to go to you; and at my time of life, having lost other pleasures, i care the more for conversation.' EOS socrates asks him what he thinks of age, to which the old man replies, that the sorrows and discontents of age are to be attributed to the tempers of men, and that age is a time of peace in which the tyranny of the passions is no longer felt. EOS yes, replies socrates, but the world will say, cephalus, that you are happy in old age because you are rich. EOS socrates, who is evidently preparing for an argument, next asks, what is the meaning of the word justice? EOS to tell the truth and pay your debts? EOS no more than this? EOS or must we admit exceptions? EOS ought i, for example, to put back into the hands of my friend, who has gone mad, the sword which i borrowed of him when he was in his right mind? EOS 'there must be exceptions.' EOS 'and yet,' says polemarchus, 'the definition which has been given has the authority of simonides.' EOS here cephalus retires to look after the sacrifices, and bequeaths, as socrates facetiously remarks, the possession of the argument to his heir, polemarchus...  the description of old age is finished, and plato, as his manner is, has touched the key-note of the whole work in asking for the definition of justice, first suggesting the question which glaucon afterwards pursues respecting external goods, and preparing for the concluding mythus of the world below in the slight allusion of cephalus. EOS the first explanation has been supported by a saying of simonides; and now socrates has a mind to show that the resolution of justice into two unconnected precepts, which have no common principle, fails to satisfy the demands of dialectic. EOS ...he proceeds: what did simonides mean by this saying of his? EOS did he mean that i was to give back arms to a madman? EOS 'no, not in that case, not if the parties are friends, and evil would result. EOS every act does something to somebody; and following this analogy, socrates asks, what is this due and proper thing which justice does, and to whom? EOS he is answered that justice does good to friends and harm to enemies. EOS but in what way good or harm? EOS 'in making alliances with the one, and going to war with the other.' EOS then in time of peace what is the good of justice? EOS the answer is that justice is of use in contracts, and contracts are money partnerships. EOS yes; but how in such partnerships is the just man of more use than any other man? EOS 'when you want to have money safely kept and not used.' EOS then justice will be useful when money is useless. EOS and there is another difficulty: justice, like the art of war or any other art, must be of opposites, good at attack as well as at defence, at stealing as well as at guarding. EOS the answer is, that we must do good to our seeming and real good friends, and evil to our seeming and real evil enemies--good to the good, evil to the evil. EOS but ought we to render evil for evil at all, when to do so will only make men more evil? EOS can justice produce injustice any more than the art of horsemanship can make bad horsemen, or heat produce cold? EOS 398-381)...  thus the first stage of aphoristic or unconscious morality is shown to be inadequate to the wants of the age; the authority of the poets is set aside, and through the winding mazes of dialectic we make an approach to the christian precept of forgiveness of injuries. EOS in this both plato and kheyam rise above the level of many christian (?) EOS theologians. EOS the first definition of justice easily passes into the second; for the simple words 'to speak the truth and pay your debts' is substituted the more abstract 'to do good to your friends and harm to your enemies.' EOS either of these explanations gives a sufficient rule of life for plain men, but they both fall short of the precision of philosophy. EOS ...here thrasymachus, who has made several attempts to interrupt, but has hitherto been kept in order by the company, takes advantage of a pause and rushes into the arena, beginning, like a savage animal, with a roar. EOS he then prohibits all the ordinary definitions of justice; to which socrates replies that he cannot tell how many twelve is, if he is forbidden to say 2 x 6, or 3 x 4, or 6 x 2, or 4 x 3. at first thrasymachus is reluctant to argue; but at length, with a promise of payment on the part of the company and of praise from socrates, he is induced to open the game. EOS let me understand you first. EOS do you mean that because polydamas the wrestler, who is stronger than we are, finds the eating of beef for his interest, the eating of beef is also for our interest, who are not so strong? EOS thrasymachus is indignant at the illustration, and in pompous words, apparently intended to restore dignity to the argument, he explains his meaning to be that the rulers make laws for their own interests. EOS thrasymachus is saved from this speedy downfall by his disciple cleitophon, who introduces the word 'thinks;'--not the actual interest of the ruler, but what he thinks or what seems to be his interest, is justice. EOS the contradiction is escaped by the unmeaning evasion: for though his real and apparent interests may differ, what the ruler thinks to be his interest will always remain what he thinks to be his interest. EOS but socrates is not disposed to quarrel about words, if, as he significantly insinuates, his adversary has changed his mind. EOS socrates is quite ready to accept the new position, which he equally turns against thrasymachus by the help of the analogy of the arts. EOS every art or science has an interest, but this interest is to be distinguished from the accidental interest of the artist, and is only concerned with the good of the things or persons which come under the art. EOS and justice has an interest which is the interest not of the ruler or judge, but of those who come under his sway. EOS 'tell me, socrates,' he says, 'have you a nurse?' EOS 'because, if you have, she neglects you and lets you go about drivelling, and has not even taught you to know the shepherd from the sheep. EOS thrasymachus, who is better at a speech than at a close argument, having deluged the company with words, has a mind to escape. EOS but the others will not let him go, and socrates adds a humble but earnest request that he will not desert them at such a crisis of their fate. EOS 'and what can i do more for you?' EOS he says; 'would you have me put the words bodily into your souls?' EOS god forbid! EOS 'no doubt about it,' replies thrasymachus. EOS is not the reason, that their interest is not comprehended in their art, and is therefore the concern of another art, the art of pay, which is common to the arts in general, and therefore not identical with any one of them? EOS nor would any man be a ruler unless he were induced by the hope of reward or the fear of punishment;--the reward is money or honour, the punishment is the necessity of being ruled by a man worse than himself. EOS and if a state (or church) were composed entirely of good men, they would be affected by the last motive only; and there would be as much 'nolo episcopari' as there is at present of the opposite...  the satire on existing governments is heightened by the simple and apparently incidental manner in which the last remark is introduced. EOS there is a similar irony in the argument that the governors of mankind do not like being in office, and that therefore they demand pay. EOS ...enough of this: the other assertion of thrasymachus is far more important--that the unjust life is more gainful than the just. EOS now, as you and i, glaucon, are not convinced by him, we must reply to him; but if we try to compare their respective gains we shall want a judge to decide for us; we had better therefore proceed by making mutual admissions of the truth to one another. EOS the admission is elicited from him that the just man seeks to gain an advantage over the unjust only, but not over the just, while the unjust would gain an advantage over either. EOS socrates, in order to test this statement, employs once more the favourite analogy of the arts. EOS thus the skilled falls on the side of the good, and the unskilled on the side of the evil, and the just is the skilled, and the unjust is the unskilled. EOS there was great difficulty in bringing thrasymachus to the point; the day was hot and he was streaming with perspiration, and for the first time in his life he was seen to blush. EOS but his other thesis that injustice was stronger than justice has not yet been refuted, and socrates now proceeds to the consideration of this, which, with the assistance of thrasymachus, he hopes to clear up; the latter is at first churlish, but in the judicious hands of socrates is soon restored to good-humour: is there not honour among thieves? EOS is not absolute injustice absolute weakness also? EOS a house that is divided against itself cannot stand; two men who quarrel detract from one another's strength, and he who is at war with himself is the enemy of himself and the gods. EOS thrasymachus replies: 'let this be your entertainment, socrates, at the festival of bendis.' EOS thus the sophistical fabric has been demolished, chiefly by appealing to the analogy of the arts. EOS 'justice is like the arts (1) in having no external interest, and (2) in not aiming at excess, and (3) justice is to happiness what the implement of the workman is to his work.' EOS at this the modern reader is apt to stumble, because he forgets that plato is writing in an age when the arts and the virtues, like the moral and intellectual faculties, were still undistinguished. EOS they only saw the points of agreement in them and not the points of difference. EOS virtue, like art, must take means to an end; good manners are both an art and a virtue; character is naturally described under the image of a statue; and there are many other figures of speech which are readily transferred from art to morals. EOS ), or that 'virtue implies intention and constancy of purpose,' whereas 'art requires knowledge only'. EOS and yet in the absurdities which follow from some uses of the analogy, there seems to be an intimation conveyed that virtue is more than art. EOS nor is it employed elsewhere either by plato or by any other greek writer. EOS another flaw or inaccuracy of language may be noted in the words 'men who are injured are made more unjust.' EOS that the good is of the nature of the finite is a peculiarly hellenic sentiment, which may be compared with the language of those modern writers who speak of virtue as fitness, and of freedom as obedience to law. EOS the mathematical or logical notion of limit easily passes into an ethical one, and even finds a mythological expression in the conception of envy (greek). EOS ideas of measure, equality, order, unity, proportion, still linger in the writings of moralists; and the true spirit of the fine arts is better conveyed by such terms than by superlatives. EOS (king john.) EOS the harmony of the soul and body, and of the parts of the soul with one another, a harmony 'fairer than that of musical notes,' is the true hellenic mode of conceiving the perfection of human nature. EOS in what may be called the epilogue of the discussion with thrasymachus, plato argues that evil is not a principle of strength, but of discord and dissolution, just touching the question which has been often treated in modern times by theologians and philosophers, of the negative nature of evil. EOS nothing is concluded; but the tendency of the dialectical process, here as always, is to enlarge our conception of ideas, and to widen their application to human life. EOS book ii. EOS he is not satisfied with the indirect manner in which, at the end of the last book, socrates had disposed of the question 'whether the just or the unjust is the happier.' EOS he begins by dividing goods into three classes:--first, goods desirable in themselves; secondly, goods desirable in themselves and for their results; thirdly, goods desirable for their results only. EOS he then asks socrates in which of the three classes he would place justice. EOS in the second class, replies socrates, among goods desirable for themselves and also for their results. EOS 'then the world in general are of another mind, for they say that justice belongs to the troublesome class of goods which are desirable for their results only. EOS glaucon thinks that thrasymachus was too ready to listen to the voice of the charmer, and proposes to consider the nature of justice and injustice in themselves and apart from the results and rewards of them which the world is always dinning in his ears. EOS he will first of all speak of the nature and origin of justice; secondly, of the manner in which men view justice as a necessity and not a good; and thirdly, he will prove the reasonableness of this view. EOS 'to do injustice is said to be a good; to suffer injustice an evil. EOS as the evil is discovered by experience to be greater than the good, the sufferers, who cannot also be doers, make a compact that they will have neither, and this compact or mean is called justice, but is really the impossibility of doing injustice. EOS let us suppose that the just and unjust have two rings, like that of gyges in the well-known story, which make them invisible, and then no difference will appear in them, for every one will do evil if he can. EOS and he who abstains will be regarded by the world as a fool for his pains. EOS men may praise him in public out of fear for themselves, but they will laugh at him in their hearts (cp. EOS how different is the case of the unjust who clings to appearance as the true reality! EOS his high character makes him a ruler; he can marry where he likes, trade where he likes, help his friends and hurt his enemies; having got rich by dishonesty he can worship the gods better, and will therefore be more loved by them than the just.' EOS i was thinking what to answer, when adeimantus joined in the already unequal fray. EOS there are the pictures in homer and hesiod of fat sheep and heavy fleeces, rich corn-fields and trees toppling with fruit, which the gods provide in this life for the just. EOS and the orphic poets add a similar picture of another. EOS the heroes of musaeus and eumolpus lie on couches at a festival, with garlands on their heads, enjoying as the meed of virtue a paradise of immortal drunkenness. EOS but the wicked they bury in a slough and make them carry water in a sieve: and in this life they attribute to them the infamy which glaucon was assuming to be the lot of the just who are supposed to be unjust. EOS 'take another kind of argument which is found both in poetry and prose:--"virtue," as hesiod says, "is honourable but difficult, vice is easy and profitable." EOS 'when a lively-minded ingenuous youth hears all this, what will be his conclusion? EOS "will he," in the language of pindar, "make justice his high tower, or fortify himself with crooked deceit?" EOS justice, he reflects, without the appearance of justice, is misery and ruin; injustice has the promise of a glorious life. EOS then why not sin and pay for indulgences out of your sin? EOS for if the righteous are only unpunished, still they have no further reward, while the wicked may be unpunished and have the pleasure of sinning too. EOS but what of the world below? EOS nay, says the argument, there are atoning powers who will set that matter right, as the poets, who are the sons of the gods, tell us; and this is confirmed by the authority of the state. EOS 'how can we resist such arguments in favour of injustice? EOS add good manners, and, as the wise tell us, we shall make the best of both worlds. EOS who that is not a miserable caitiff will refrain from smiling at the praises of justice? EOS 'the origin of the evil is that all men from the beginning, heroes, poets, instructors of youth, have always asserted "the temporal dispensation," the honours and profits of justice. EOS had we been taught in early youth the power of justice and injustice inherent in the soul, and unseen by any human or divine eye, we should not have needed others to be our guardians, but every one would have been the guardian of himself. EOS this is what i want you to show, socrates;--other men use arguments which rather tend to strengthen the position of thrasymachus that "might is right;" but from you i expect better things. EOS and please, as glaucon said, to exclude reputation; let the just be thought unjust and the unjust just, and do you still prove to us the superiority of justice'...  the thesis, which for the sake of argument has been maintained by glaucon, is the converse of that of thrasymachus--not right is the interest of the stronger, but right is the necessity of the weaker. EOS starting from the same premises he carries the analysis of society a step further back;--might is still right, but the might is the weakness of the many combined against the strength of the few. EOS there have been theories in modern as well as in ancient times which have a family likeness to the speculations of glaucon; e.g. EOS that power is the foundation of right; or that a monarch has a divine right to govern well or ill; or that virtue is self-love or the love of power; or that war is the natural state of man; or that private vices are public benefits. EOS all such theories have a kind of plausibility from their partial agreement with experience. EOS for human nature oscillates between good and evil, and the motives of actions and the origin of institutions may be explained to a certain extent on either hypothesis according to the character or point of view of a particular thinker. EOS nor again is there any evil which has not some accompaniment of good or pleasure; nor any good which is free from some alloy of evil; nor any noble or generous thought which may not be attended by a shadow or the ghost of a shadow of self-interest or of self-love. EOS we know that all human actions are imperfect; but we do not therefore attribute them to the worse rather than to the better motive or principle. EOS such a philosophy is both foolish and false, like that opinion of the clever rogue who assumes all other men to be like himself. EOS and as men become better such theories appear more and more untruthful to them, because they are more conscious of their own disinterestedness. EOS a little experience may make a man a cynic; a great deal will bring him back to a truer and kindlier view of the mixed nature of himself and his fellow men. EOS the two brothers ask socrates to prove to them that the just is happy when they have taken from him all that in which happiness is ordinarily supposed to consist. EOS not that there is (1) any absurdity in the attempt to frame a notion of justice apart from circumstances. EOS for the ideal must always be a paradox when compared with the ordinary conditions of human life. EOS an ideal is none the worse because 'some one has made the discovery' that no such ideal was ever realized. EOS and in a few exceptional individuals who are raised above the ordinary level of humanity, the ideal of happiness may be realized in death and misery. EOS this may be the state which the reason deliberately approves, and which the utilitarian as well as every other moralist may be bound in certain cases to prefer. EOS he is developing his idea gradually in a series of positions or situations. EOS glaucon has been drawing a picture of the misery of the just and the happiness of the unjust, to which the misery of the tyrant in book ix is the answer and parallel. EOS and still the unjust must appear just; that is 'the homage which vice pays to virtue.' EOS but now adeimantus, taking up the hint which had been already given by glaucon, proceeds to show that in the opinion of mankind justice is regarded only for the sake of rewards and reputation, and points out the advantage which is given to such arguments as those of thrasymachus and glaucon by the conventional morality of mankind. EOS he seems to feel the difficulty of 'justifying the ways of god to man.' EOS the common life of greece is not enough for them; they must penetrate deeper into the nature of things. EOS may we not more truly say that the old-fashioned notion of justice is enlarged by socrates, and becomes equivalent to universal order or well-being, first in the state, and secondly in the individual? EOS he has found a new answer to his old question (protag. EOS ), 'whether the virtues are one or many,' viz. EOS that one is the ordering principle of the three others. EOS in seeking to establish the purely internal nature of justice, he is met by the fact that man is a social being, and he tries to harmonise the two opposite theses as well as he can. EOS plato does not give the final solution of philosophical questions for us; nor can he be judged of by our standard. EOS the remainder of the republic is developed out of the question of the sons of ariston. EOS he does not say that happiness consists in the contemplation of the idea of justice, and still less will he be tempted to affirm the stoical paradox that the just man can be happy on the rack. EOS but first he dwells on the difficulty of the problem and insists on restoring man to his natural condition, before he will answer the question at all. EOS he too will frame an ideal, but his ideal comprehends not only abstract justice, but the whole relations of man. EOS in the perfect state, justice and happiness will coincide, and that when justice has been once found, happiness may be left to take care of itself. EOS that he falls into some degree of inconsistency, when in the tenth book he claims to have got rid of the rewards and honours of justice, may be admitted; for he has left those which exist in the perfect state. EOS and the philosopher 'who retires under the shelter of a wall' can hardly have been esteemed happy by him, at least not in this world. EOS let a man do his duty first, without asking whether he will be happy or not, and happiness will be the inseparable accident which attends him. EOS 'seek ye first the kingdom of god and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.' EOS secondly, it may be remarked that plato preserves the genuine character of greek thought in beginning with the state and in going on to the individual. EOS first ethics, then politics--this is the order of ideas to us; the reverse is the order of history. EOS and to this type he is constantly tending to revert, whenever the influence of custom, or of party spirit, or the recollection of the past becomes too strong for him. EOS thirdly, we may observe the confusion or identification of the individual and the state, of ethics and politics, which pervades early greek speculation, and even in modern times retains a certain degree of influence. EOS the good man and the good citizen only coincide in the perfect state; and this perfection cannot be attained by legislation acting upon them from without, but, if at all, by education fashioning them from within. EOS ...socrates praises the sons of ariston, 'inspired offspring of the renowned hero,' as the elegiac poet terms them; but he does not understand how they can argue so eloquently on behalf of injustice while their character shows that they are uninfluenced by their own arguments. EOS he therefore makes a condition, that having weak eyes he shall be allowed to read the large letters first and then go on to the smaller, that is, he must look for justice in the state first, and will then proceed to the individual. EOS accordingly he begins to construct the state. EOS the sense of these needs and the possibility of satisfying them by exchange, draw individuals together on the same spot; and this is the beginning of a state, which we take the liberty to invent, although necessity is the real inventor. EOS there must be first a husbandman, secondly a builder, thirdly a weaver, to which may be added a cobbler. EOS four or five citizens at least are required to make a city. EOS now men have different natures, and one man will do one thing better than many; and business waits for no man. EOS hence there must be a division of labour into different employments; into wholesale and retail trade; into workers, and makers of workmen's tools; into shepherds and husbandmen. EOS but then again imports will be required, and imports necessitate exports, and this implies variety of produce in order to attract the taste of purchasers; also merchants and ships. EOS in the city too we must have a market and money and retail trades; otherwise buyers and sellers will never meet, and the valuable time of the producers will be wasted in vain efforts at exchange. EOS if we add hired servants the state will be complete. EOS and we may guess that somewhere in the intercourse of the citizens with one another justice and injustice will appear. EOS they spend their days in houses which they have built for themselves; they make their own clothes and produce their own corn and wine. EOS their principal food is meal and flour, and they drink in moderation. EOS they live on the best of terms with each other, and take care not to have too many children. EOS 'but,' said glaucon, interposing, 'are they not to have a relish?' EOS certainly; they will have salt and olives and cheese, vegetables and fruits, and chestnuts to roast at the fire. EOS ''tis a city of pigs, socrates.' EOS why, i replied, what do you want more? EOS 'only the comforts of life,--sofas and tables, also sauces and sweets.' EOS then the fine arts must go to work--every conceivable instrument and ornament of luxury will be wanted. EOS and this is the origin of war, which may be traced to the same causes as other political evils. EOS our city will now require the slight addition of a camp, and the citizen will be converted into a soldier. EOS but then again our old doctrine of the division of labour must not be forgotten. EOS there will be some warlike natures who have this aptitude--dogs keen of scent, swift of foot to pursue, and strong of limb to fight. EOS and as spirit is the foundation of courage, such natures, whether of men or animals, will be full of spirit. EOS who then can be a guardian? EOS for dogs are gentle to friends and fierce to strangers. EOS your dog is a philosopher who judges by the rule of knowing or not knowing; and philosophy, whether in man or beast, is the parent of gentleness. EOS the human watchdogs must be philosophers or lovers of learning which will make them gentle. EOS is any better than the old-fashioned sort which is comprehended under the name of music and gymnastic? EOS music includes literature, and literature is of two kinds, true and false. EOS he said. EOS i mean that children hear stories before they learn gymnastics, and that the stories are either untrue, or have at most one or two grains of truth in a bushel of falsehood. EOS now early life is very impressible, and children ought not to learn what they will have to unlearn when they grow up; we must therefore have a censorship of nursery tales, banishing some and keeping others. EOS shall they listen to the narrative of hephaestus binding his mother, and of zeus sending him flying for helping her when she was beaten? EOS such tales may possibly have a mystical interpretation, but the young are incapable of understanding allegory. EOS if any one asks what tales are to be allowed, we will answer that we are legislators and not book-makers; we only lay down the principles according to which books are to be written; to write them is the duty of others. EOS and our first principle is, that god must be represented as he is; not as the author of all things, but of good only. EOS we will not suffer the poets to say that he is the steward of good and evil, or that he has two casks full of destinies;--or that athene and zeus incited pandarus to break the treaty; or that god caused the sufferings of niobe, or of pelops, or the trojan war; or that he makes men sin when he wishes to destroy them. EOS either these were not the actions of the gods, or god was just, and men were the better for being punished. EOS and the second principle is like unto it:--with god is no variableness or change of form. EOS by another?--but the best works of nature and art and the noblest qualities of mind are least liable to be changed by any external force. EOS by himself?--but he cannot change for the better; he will hardly change for the worse. EOS therefore we refuse to listen to the poets who tell us of here begging in the likeness of a priestess or of other deities who prowl about at night in strange disguises; all that blasphemous nonsense with which mothers fool the manhood out of their children must be suppressed. EOS why should he? EOS for gods as well as men hate the lie in the soul, or principle of falsehood; and as for any other form of lying which is used for a purpose and is regarded as innocent in certain exceptional cases--what need have the gods of this? EOS this is our second great principle--god is true. EOS away with the lying dream of agamemnon in homer, and the accusation of thetis against apollo in aeschylus...  in order to give clearness to his conception of the state, plato proceeds to trace the first principles of mutual need and of division of labour in an imaginary community of four or five citizens. EOS gradually this community increases; the division of labour extends to countries; imports necessitate exports; a medium of exchange is required, and retailers sit in the market-place to save the time of the producers. EOS these are the steps by which plato constructs the first or primitive state, introducing the elements of political economy by the way. EOS as he is going to frame a second or civilized state, the simple naturally comes before the complex. EOS we should not interpret a platonic dialogue any more than a poem or a parable in too literal or matter-of-fact a style. EOS on the other hand, when we compare the lively fancy of plato with the dried-up abstractions of modern treatises on philosophy, we are compelled to say with protagoras, that the 'mythus is more interesting' (protag.) EOS the last subject, and also the origin of retail trade, is treated with admirable lucidity in the second book of the republic. EOS but plato never combined his economic ideas into a system, and never seems to have recognized that trade is one of the great motive powers of the state and of the world. EOS the disappointment of glaucon at the 'city of pigs,' the ludicrous description of the ministers of luxury in the more refined state, and the afterthought of the necessity of doctors, the illustration of the nature of the guardian taken from the dog, the desirableness of offering some almost unprocurable victim when impure mysteries are to be celebrated, the behaviour of zeus to his father and of hephaestus to his mother, are touches of humour which have also a serious meaning. EOS in speaking of education plato rather startles us by affirming that a child must be trained in falsehood first and in truth afterwards. EOS we should insist that the word was inseparable from the intention, and that we must not be 'falsely true,' i.e. EOS but plato would limit the use of fictions only by requiring that they should have a good moral effect, and that such a dangerous weapon as falsehood should be employed by the rulers alone and for great objects. EOS he was just beginning to be conscious that the past had a history; but he could see nothing beyond homer and hesiod. EOS the facts of an ancient or religious history are amongst the most important of all facts; but they are frequently uncertain, and we only learn the true lesson which is to be gathered from them when we place ourselves above them. EOS for we should agree with him in placing the moral before the historical truth of religion; and, generally, in disregarding those errors or misstatements of fact which necessarily occur in the early stages of all religions. EOS we know also that changes in the traditions of a country cannot be made in a day; and are therefore tolerant of many things which science and criticism would condemn. EOS we note in passing that the allegorical interpretation of mythology, said to have been first introduced as early as the sixth century before christ by theagenes of rhegium, was well established in the age of plato, and here, as in the phaedrus, though for a different reason, was rejected by him. EOS that anachronisms whether of religion or law, when men have reached another stage of civilization, should be got rid of by fictions is in accordance with universal experience. EOS great is the art of interpretation; and by a natural process, which when once discovered was always going on, what could not be altered was explained away. EOS at length the antagonism between the popular and philosophical religion, never so great among the greeks as in our own age, disappeared, and was only felt like the difference between the religion of the educated and uneducated among ourselves. EOS these and still more wonderful transformations were readily effected by the ingenuity of stoics and neo-platonists in the two or three centuries before and after christ. EOS a singular conception which occurs towards the end of the book is the lie in the soul; this is connected with the platonic and socratic doctrine that involuntary ignorance is worse than voluntary. EOS the lie in the soul is a true lie, the corruption of the highest truth, the deception of the highest part of the soul, from which he who is deceived has no power of delivering himself. EOS for example, to represent god as false or immoral, or, according to plato, as deluding men with appearances or as the author of evil; or again, to affirm with protagoras that 'knowledge is sensation,' or that 'being is becoming,' or with thrasymachus 'that might is right,' would have been regarded by plato as a lie of this hateful sort. EOS if, in the language of the gospels (john), 'he who was blind' were to say 'i see,' is another aspect of the state of mind which plato is describing. EOS to this is opposed the lie in words, which is only such a deception as may occur in a play or poem, or allegory or figure of speech, or in any sort of accommodation,--which though useless to the gods may be useful to men in certain cases. EOS book iii. EOS nor must they be angry if we expunge obnoxious passages, such as the depressing words of achilles--'i would rather be a serving-man than rule over all the dead;' and the verses which tell of the squalid mansions, the senseless shadows, the flitting soul mourning over lost strength and youth, the soul with a gibber going beneath the earth like smoke, or the souls of the suitors which flutter about like bats. EOS the terrors and horrors of cocytus and styx, ghosts and sapless shades, and the rest of their tartarean nomenclature, must vanish. EOS such tales may have their use; but they are not the proper food for soldiers. EOS neither is death terrible to him; and therefore lamentations over the dead should not be practised by men of note; they should be the concern of inferior persons only, whether women or men. EOS still worse is the attribution of such weakness to the gods; as when the goddesses say, 'alas! EOS my travail!' EOS and worst of all, when the king of heaven himself laments his inability to save hector, or sorrows over the impending doom of his dear sarpedon. EOS such a character of god, if not ridiculed by our young men, is likely to be imitated by them. EOS nor should our citizens be given to excess of laughter--'such violent delights' are followed by a violent re-action. EOS the description in the iliad of the gods shaking their sides at the clumsiness of hephaestus will not be admitted by us. EOS 'certainly not.' EOS but this employment of falsehood must remain a privilege of state; the common man must not in return tell a lie to the ruler; any more than the patient would tell a lie to his physician, or the sailor to his captain. EOS that is a lesson which homer teaches in some places: 'the achaeans marched on breathing prowess, in silent awe of their leaders;'--but a very different one in other places: 'o heavy with wine, who hast the eyes of a dog, but the heart of a stag.' EOS language of the latter kind will not impress self-control on the minds of youth. EOS the same may be said about his praises of eating and drinking and his dread of starvation; also about the verses in which he tells of the rapturous loves of zeus and here, or of how hephaestus once detained ares and aphrodite in a net on a similar occasion. EOS nor must we allow our citizens to receive bribes, or to say, 'gifts persuade the gods, gifts reverend kings;' or to applaud the ignoble advice of phoenix to achilles that he should get money out of the greeks before he assisted them; or the meanness of achilles himself in taking gifts from agamemnon; or his requiring a ransom for the body of hector; or his cursing of apollo; or his insolence to the river-god scamander; or his dedication to the dead patroclus of his own hair which had been already dedicated to the other river-god spercheius; or his cruelty in dragging the body of hector round the walls, and slaying the captives at the pyre: such a combination of meanness and cruelty in cheiron's pupil is inconceivable. EOS enough of gods and heroes;--what shall we say about men? EOS what the poets and story-tellers say--that the wicked prosper and the righteous are afflicted, or that justice is another's gain? EOS such misrepresentations cannot be allowed by us. EOS but in this we are anticipating the definition of justice, and had therefore better defer the enquiry. EOS the subjects of poetry have been sufficiently treated; next follows style. EOS an instance will make my meaning clear. EOS the first scene in homer is of the last or mixed kind, being partly description and partly dialogue. EOS or rather, has not the question been already answered, for we have decided that one man cannot in his life play many parts, any more than he can act both tragedy and comedy, or be rhapsodist and actor at once? EOS human nature is coined into very small pieces, and as our guardians have their own business already, which is the care of freedom, they will have enough to do without imitating. EOS they must not represent slaves, or bullies, or cowards, drunkards, or madmen, or blacksmiths, or neighing horses, or bellowing bulls, or sounding rivers, or a raging sea. EOS a good or wise man will be willing to perform good and wise actions, but he will be ashamed to play an inferior part which he has never practised; and he will prefer to employ the descriptive style with as little imitation as possible. EOS and when one of these polyphonous pantomimic gentlemen offers to exhibit himself and his poetry we will show him every observance of respect, but at the same time tell him that there is no room for his kind in our state; we prefer the rough, honest poet, and will not depart from our original models (laws). EOS next as to the music. EOS a song or ode has three parts,--the subject, the harmony, and the rhythm; of which the two last are dependent upon the first. EOS two remain--the dorian and phrygian, the first for war, the second for peace; the one expressive of courage, the other of obedience or instruction or religious feeling. EOS and as we reject varieties of harmony, we shall also reject the many-stringed, variously-shaped instruments which give utterance to them, and in particular the flute, which is more complex than any of them. EOS thus we have made a purgation of music, and will now make a purgation of metres. EOS these should be like the harmonies, simple and suitable to the occasion. EOS there are four notes of the tetrachord, and there are three ratios of metre, 3/2, 2/2, 2/1, which have all their characteristics, and the feet have different characteristics as well as the rhythms. EOS but about this you and i must ask damon, the great musician, who speaks, if i remember rightly, of a martial measure as well as of dactylic, trochaic, and iambic rhythms, which he arranges so as to equalize the syllables with one another, assigning to each the proper quantity. EOS this principle of simplicity has to be learnt by every one in the days of his youth, and may be gathered anywhere, from the creative and constructive arts, as well as from the forms of plants and animals. EOS other artists as well as poets should be warned against meanness or unseemliness. EOS he who violates it cannot be allowed to work in our city, and to corrupt the taste of our citizens. EOS for our guardians must grow up, not amid images of deformity which will gradually poison and corrupt their souls, but in a land of health and beauty where they will drink in from every object sweet and harmonious influences. EOS and of all these influences the greatest is the education given by music, which finds a way into the innermost soul and imparts to it the sense of beauty and of deformity. EOS at first the effect is unconscious; but when reason arrives, then he who has been thus trained welcomes her as the friend whom he always knew. EOS as in learning to read, first we acquire the elements or letters separately, and afterwards their combinations, and cannot recognize reflections of them until we know the letters themselves;--in like manner we must first attain the elements or essential forms of the virtues, and then trace their combinations in life and experience. EOS there is a music of the soul which answers to the harmony of the world; and the fairest object of a musical soul is the fair mind in the fair body. EOS enough has been said of music, which makes a fair ending with love. EOS whether the habits of the palaestra are suitable to them is more doubtful, for the ordinary gymnastic is a sleepy sort of thing, and if left off suddenly is apt to endanger health. EOS hence they will require a simpler kind of gymnastic, akin to their simple music; and for their diet a rule may be found in homer, who feeds his heroes on roast meat only, and gives them no fish although they are living at the sea-side, nor boiled meats which involve an apparatus of pots and pans; and, if i am not mistaken, he nowhere mentions sweet sauces. EOS and yet there is a worse stage of the same disease--when men have learned to take a pleasure and pride in the twists and turns of the law; not considering how much better it would be for them so to order their lives as to have no need of a nodding justice. EOS and there is a like disgrace in employing a physician, not for the cure of wounds or epidemic disorders, but because a man has by laziness and luxury contracted diseases which were unknown in the days of asclepius. EOS how simple is the homeric practice of medicine. EOS but asclepius would not practise this art, because he knew that the citizens of a well-ordered state have no leisure to be ill, and therefore he adopted the 'kill or cure' method, which artisans and labourers employ. EOS 'they must be at their business,' they say, 'and have no time for coddling: if they recover, well; if they don't, there is an end of them.' EOS when a student imagines that philosophy gives him a headache, he never does anything; he is always unwell. EOS they were acting in the interest of the public, and did not wish to preserve useless lives, or raise up a puny offspring to wretched sires. EOS honest diseases they honestly cured; and if a man was wounded, they applied the proper remedies, and then let him eat and drink what he liked. EOS but they declined to treat intemperate and worthless subjects, even though they might have made large fortunes out of them. EOS glaucon then asks socrates whether the best physicians and the best judges will not be those who have had severally the greatest experience of diseases and of crimes. EOS socrates draws a distinction between the two professions. EOS the physician should have had experience of disease in his own body, for he cures with his mind and not with his body. EOS where then is he to gain experience? EOS this is the sort of medicine and this the sort of law which will prevail in our state; they will be healing arts to better natures; but the evil body will be left to die by the one, and the evil soul will be put to death by the other. EOS the two together supply our guardians with their twofold nature. EOS while a man is allowing music to pour like water through the funnel of his ears, the edge of his soul gradually wears away, and the passionate or spirited element is melted out of him. EOS too little spirit is easily exhausted; too much quickly passes into nervous irritability. EOS so, again, the athlete by feeding and training has his courage doubled, but he soon grows stupid; he is like a wild beast, ready to do everything by blows and nothing by counsel or policy. EOS there are two principles in man, reason and passion, and to these, not to the soul and body, the two arts of music and gymnastic correspond. EOS he who mingles them in harmonious concord is the true musician,--he shall be the presiding genius of our state. EOS first, the elder must rule the younger; and the best of the elders will be the best guardians. EOS now they will be the best who love their subjects most, and think that they have a common interest with them in the welfare of the state. EOS these we must select; but they must be watched at every epoch of life to see whether they have retained the same opinions and held out against force and enchantment. EOS for time and persuasion and the love of pleasure may enchant a man into a change of purpose, and the force of grief and pain may compel him. EOS these shall receive the highest honours both in life and death. EOS and now for one magnificent lie, in the belief of which, oh that we could train our rulers!--at any rate let us make the attempt with the rest of the world. EOS what i am going to tell is only another version of the legend of cadmus; but our unbelieving generation will be slow to accept such a story. EOS we will inform them that their youth was a dream, and that during the time when they seemed to be undergoing their education they were really being fashioned in the earth, who sent them up when they were ready; and that they must protect and cherish her whose children they are, and regard each other as brothers and sisters. EOS these brothers and sisters have different natures, and some of them god framed to rule, whom he fashioned of gold; others he made of silver, to be auxiliaries; others again to be husbandmen and craftsmen, and these were formed by him of brass and iron. EOS but as they are all sprung from a common stock, a golden parent may have a silver son, or a silver parent a golden son, and then there must be a change of rank; the son of the rich must descend, and the child of the artisan rise, in the social scale; for an oracle says 'that the state will come to an end if governed by a man of brass or iron.' EOS 'not in the present generation, but in the next, perhaps, yes.' EOS now let the earthborn men go forth under the command of their rulers, and look about and pitch their camp in a high place, which will be safe against enemies from without, and likewise against insurrections from within. EOS there let them sacrifice and set up their tents; for soldiers they are to be and not shopkeepers, the watchdogs and guardians of the sheep; and luxury and avarice will turn them into wolves and tyrants. EOS they should have no property; their pay should only meet their expenses; and they should have common meals. EOS gold and silver we will tell them that they have from god, and this divine gift in their souls they must not alloy with that earthly dross which passes under the name of gold. EOS should they ever acquire houses or lands or money of their own, they will become householders and tradesmen instead of guardians, enemies and tyrants instead of helpers, and the hour of ruin, both to themselves and the rest of the state, will be at hand. EOS the religious and ethical aspect of plato's education will hereafter be considered under a separate head. EOS some lesser points may be more conveniently noticed in this place. EOS 1. the constant appeal to the authority of homer, whom, with grave irony, plato, after the manner of his age, summons as a witness about ethics and psychology, as well as about diet and medicine; attempting to distinguish the better lesson from the worse, sometimes altering the text from design; more than once quoting or alluding to homer inaccurately, after the manner of the early logographers turning the iliad into prose, and delighting to draw far-fetched inferences from his words, or to make ludicrous applications of them. EOS he does not, like heracleitus, get into a rage with homer and archilochus (heracl. EOS ), but uses their words and expressions as vehicles of a higher truth; not on a system like theagenes of rhegium or metrodorus, or in later times the stoics, but as fancy may dictate. EOS and the conclusions drawn from them are sound, although the premises are fictitious. EOS these fanciful appeals to homer add a charm to plato's style, and at the same time they have the effect of a satire on the follies of homeric interpretation. EOS to us (and probably to himself), although they take the form of arguments, they are really figures of speech. EOS the real, like the platonic socrates, as we gather from the memorabilia of xenophon, was fond of making similar adaptations. EOS great in all ages and countries, in religion as well as in law and literature, has been the art of interpretation. EOS 2. EOS 'the style is to conform to the subject and the metre to the style.' EOS we cannot deny that the thought often exceeds the power of lucid expression in aeschylus and pindar; or that rhetoric gets the better of the thought in the sophist-poet euripides. EOS only perhaps in sophocles is there a perfect harmony of the two; in him alone do we find a grace of language like the beauty of a greek statue, in which there is nothing to add or to take away; at least this is true of single plays or of large portions of them. EOS the connection in the tragic choruses and in the greek lyric poets is not unfrequently a tangled thread which in an age before logic the poet was unable to draw out. EOS many thoughts and feelings mingled in his mind, and he had no power of disengaging or arranging them. EOS in all ages the poet has been a bad judge of his own meaning (apol. EOS ); for he does not see that the word which is full of associations to his own mind is difficult and unmeaning to that of another; or that the sequence which is clear to himself is puzzling to others. EOS the obscurities of early greek poets arose necessarily out of the state of language and logic which existed in their age. EOS but there is no reason for returning to the necessary obscurity which prevailed in the infancy of literature. EOS the english poets of the last century were certainly not obscure; and we have no excuse for losing what they had gained, or for going back to the earlier or transitional age which preceded them. EOS the thought of our own times has not out-stripped language; a want of plato's 'art of measuring' is the rule cause of the disproportion between them. EOS 3. in the third book of the republic a nearer approach is made to a theory of art than anywhere else in plato. EOS his views may be summed up as follows:--true art is not fanciful and imitative, but simple and ideal,--the expression of the highest moral energy, whether in action or repose. EOS to live among works of plastic art which are of this noble and simple character, or to listen to such strains, is the best of influences,--the true greek atmosphere, in which youth should be brought up. EOS that is the way to create in them a natural good taste, which will have a feeling of truth and beauty in all things. EOS for though the poets are to be expelled, still art is recognized as another aspect of reason--like love in the symposium, extending over the same sphere, but confined to the preliminary education, and acting through the power of habit; and this conception of art is not limited to strains of music or the forms of plastic art, but pervades all nature and has a wide kindred in the world. EOS the republic of plato, like the athens of pericles, has an artistic as well as a political side. EOS there is hardly any mention in plato of the creative arts; only in two or three passages does he even allude to them (rep.; soph.). EOS he is not lost in rapture at the great works of phidias, the parthenon, the propylea, the statues of zeus or athene. EOS he would probably have regarded any abstract truth of number or figure as higher than the greatest of them. EOS yet it is hard to suppose that some influence, such as he hopes to inspire in youth, did not pass into his own mind from the works of art which he saw around him. EOS but in plato this feeling has no expression; he nowhere says that beauty is the object of art; he seems to deny that wisdom can take an external form (phaedrus); he does not distinguish the fine from the mechanical arts. EOS in one very striking passage he tells us that a work of art, like the state, is a whole; and this conception of a whole and the love of the newly-born mathematical sciences may be regarded, if not as the inspiring, at any rate as the regulating principles of greek art (xen. EOS mem. EOS ; and sophist). EOS 4. plato makes the true and subtle remark that the physician had better not be in robust health; and should have known what illness is in his own person. EOS but the judge ought to have had no similar experience of evil; he is to be a good man who, having passed his youth in innocence, became acquainted late in life with the vices of others. EOS and therefore, according to plato, a judge should not be young, just as a young man according to aristotle is not fit to be a hearer of moral philosophy. EOS the bad, on the other hand, have a knowledge of vice, but no knowledge of virtue. EOS it may be doubted, however, whether this train of reflection is well founded. EOS the union of gentleness and courage in book ii. EOS and plato might also have found that the intuition of evil may be consistent with the abhorrence of it. EOS there is a directness of aim in virtue which gives an insight into vice. EOS 5. one of the most remarkable conceptions of plato, because un-greek and also very different from anything which existed at all in his age of the world, is the transposition of ranks. EOS in the spartan state there had been enfranchisement of helots and degradation of citizens under special circumstances. EOS and in the ancient greek aristocracies, merit was certainly recognized as one of the elements on which government was based. EOS the founders of states were supposed to be their benefactors, who were raised by their great actions above the ordinary level of humanity; at a later period, the services of warriors and legislators were held to entitle them and their descendants to the privileges of citizenship and to the first rank in the state. EOS and although the existence of an ideal aristocracy is slenderly proven from the remains of early greek history, and we have a difficulty in ascribing such a character, however the idea may be defined, to any actual hellenic state--or indeed to any state which has ever existed in the world--still the rule of the best was certainly the aspiration of philosophers, who probably accommodated a good deal their views of primitive history to their own notions of good government. EOS plato further insists on applying to the guardians of his state a series of tests by which all those who fell short of a fixed standard were either removed from the governing body, or not admitted to it; and this 'academic' discipline did to a certain extent prevail in greek states, especially in sparta. EOS he is aware how deeply the greater part of mankind resent any interference with the order of society, and therefore he proposes his novel idea in the form of what he himself calls a 'monstrous fiction.' EOS (compare the ceremony of preparation for the two 'great waves' in book v.) two principles are indicated by him: first, that there is a distinction of ranks dependent on circumstances prior to the individual: second, that this distinction is and ought to be broken through by personal qualities. EOS he adapts mythology like the homeric poems to the wants of the state, making 'the phoenician tale' the vehicle of his ideas. EOS every greek state had a myth respecting its own origin; the platonic republic may also have a tale of earthborn men. EOS the gravity and verisimilitude with which the tale is told, and the analogy of greek tradition, are a sufficient verification of the 'monstrous falsehood.' EOS ancient poetry had spoken of a gold and silver and brass and iron age succeeding one another, but plato supposes these differences in the natures of men to exist together in a single state. EOS in this passage he shadows forth a general truth, but he does not tell us by what steps the transposition of ranks is to be effected. EOS indeed throughout the republic he allows the lower ranks to fade into the distance. EOS nor is there any use in arguing strictly either from a few chance words, or from the silence of plato, or in drawing inferences which were beyond his vision. EOS 6. two paradoxes which strike the modern reader as in the highest degree fanciful and ideal, and which suggest to him many reflections, are to be found in the third book of the republic: first, the great power of music, so much beyond any influence which is experienced by us in modern times, when the art or science has been far more developed, and has found the secret of harmony, as well as of melody; secondly, the indefinite and almost absolute control which the soul is supposed to exercise over the body. EOS in the first we suspect some degree of exaggeration, such as we may also observe among certain masters of the art, not unknown to us, at the present day. EOS with this natural enthusiasm, which is felt by a few only, there seems to mingle in plato a sort of pythagorean reverence for numbers and numerical proportion to which aristotle is a stranger. EOS they rise above sense, and become a connecting link with the world of ideas. EOS but it is evident that plato is describing what to him appears to be also a fact. EOS the power of a simple and characteristic melody on the impressible mind of the greek is more than we can easily appreciate. EOS the effect of national airs may bear some comparison with it. EOS and, besides all this, there is a confusion between the harmony of musical notes and the harmony of soul and body, which is so potently inspired by them. EOS and then the body becomes the good friend or ally, or servant or instrument of the mind. EOS and the mind has often a wonderful and almost superhuman power of banishing disease and weakness and calling out a hidden strength. EOS there is another which says, 'do not drink; it is not good for you.' EOS and we all of us know which is the rightful superior. EOS we are also responsible for our health, although into this sphere there enter some elements of necessity which may be beyond our control. EOS still even in the management of health, care and thought, continued over many years, may make us almost free agents, if we do not exact too much of ourselves, and if we acknowledge that all human freedom is limited by the laws of nature and of mind. EOS he is afraid of invalidism interfering with the business of life. EOS (1) the affected ignorance of music, which is plato's way of expressing that he is passing lightly over the subject. EOS (2) the tentative manner in which here, as in the second book, he proceeds with the construction of the state. EOS book iv. EOS you may add, i replied, that they receive no pay but only their food, and have no money to spend on a journey or a mistress. EOS my answer is, that our guardians may or may not be the happiest of men,--i should not be surprised to find in the long-run that they were,--but this is not the aim of our constitution, which was designed for the good of the whole and not of any one part. EOS and a state may get on without cobblers; but when the guardians degenerate into boon companions, then the ruin is complete. EOS remember that we are not talking of peasants keeping holiday, but of a state in which every man is expected to do his own work. EOS the happiness resides not in this or that class, but in the state as a whole. EOS and will not the same condition be best for our citizens? EOS if they are poor, they will be mean; if rich, luxurious and lazy; and in neither case contented. EOS suppose also, that before engaging we send ambassadors to one of the two cities, saying, 'silver and gold we have not; do you help us and take our share of the spoil;'--who would fight against the lean, wiry dogs, when they might join with them in preying upon the fatted sheep? EOS i am amused to hear you use the word 'state' of any but our own state. EOS for in every state there are two hostile nations, rich and poor, which you may set one against the other. EOS to the size of the state there is no limit but the necessity of unity; it must be neither too large nor too small to be one. EOS this is a matter of secondary importance, like the principle of transposition which was intimated in the parable of the earthborn men. EOS but all these things are secondary, if education, which is the great matter, be duly regarded. EOS when the wheel has once been set in motion, the speed is always increasing; and each generation improves upon the preceding, both in physical and moral qualities. EOS the change appears innocent at first, and begins in play; but the evil soon becomes serious, working secretly upon the characters of individuals, then upon social and commercial relations, and lastly upon the institutions of a state; and there is ruin and confusion everywhere. EOS a restorative process will be always going on; the spirit of law and order will raise up what has fallen down. EOS nor will any regulations be needed for the lesser matters of life--rules of deportment or fashions of dress. EOS but without education they may patch and mend as they please; they will make no progress, any more than a patient who thinks to cure himself by some favourite remedy and will not give up his luxurious mode of living. EOS if you tell such persons that they must first alter their habits, then they grow angry; they are charming people. EOS 'charming,--nay, the very reverse.' EOS and such states there are which first ordain under penalty of death that no one shall alter the constitution, and then suffer themselves to be flattered into and out of anything; and he who indulges them and fawns upon them, is their leader and saviour. EOS but do you not admire their cleverness? EOS 'nay, some of them are stupid enough to believe what the people tell them.' EOS and when all the world is telling a man that he is six feet high, and he has no measure, how can he believe anything else? EOS minute enactments are superfluous in good states, and are useless in bad ones. EOS they may be the happiest of men, but our principal aim in founding the state was not to make them happy. EOS in this pleasant manner is presented to us the famous question both of ancient and modern philosophy, touching the relation of duty to happiness, of right to utility. EOS first duty, then happiness, is the natural order of our moral ideas. EOS the utilitarian principle is valuable as a corrective of error, and shows to us a side of ethics which is apt to be neglected. EOS it may be admitted further that right and utility are co-extensive, and that he who makes the happiness of mankind his object has one of the highest and noblest motives of human action. EOS but utility is not the historical basis of morality; nor the aspect in which moral and religious ideas commonly occur to the mind. EOS the greatest happiness of the individual is certainly to be found in a life of virtue and goodness. EOS but we seem to be more assured of a law of right than we can be of a divine purpose, that 'all mankind should be saved;' and we infer the one from the other. EOS and the greatest happiness of the individual may be the reverse of the greatest happiness in the ordinary sense of the term, and may be realised in a life of pain, or in a voluntary death. EOS further, the word 'happiness' has several ambiguities; it may mean either pleasure or an ideal life, happiness subjective or objective, in this world or in another, of ourselves only or of our neighbours and of all men everywhere. EOS by the modern founder of utilitarianism the self-regarding and disinterested motives of action are included under the same term, although they are commonly opposed by us as benevolence and self-love. EOS the word happiness has not the definiteness or the sacredness of 'truth' and 'right'; it does not equally appeal to our higher nature, and has not sunk into the conscience of mankind. EOS in a great trial, or danger, or temptation, or in any great and heroic action, it is scarcely thought of. EOS but though not the first principle, it is the second, which is like unto it, and is often of easier application. EOS for the larger part of human actions are neither right nor wrong, except in so far as they tend to the happiness of mankind (introd. EOS the same question reappears in politics, where the useful or expedient seems to claim a larger sphere and to have a greater authority. EOS for concerning political measures, we chiefly ask: how will they affect the happiness of mankind? EOS yet here too we may observe that what we term expediency is merely the law of right limited by the conditions of human society. EOS they appeal to the better mind of nations; and sometimes they are too much for merely temporal interests to resist. EOS they are the watchwords which all men use in matters of public policy, as well as in their private dealings; the peace of europe may be said to depend upon them. EOS and all the higher class of statesmen have in them something of that idealism which pericles is said to have gathered from the teaching of anaxagoras. EOS they recognise that the true leader of men must be above the motives of ambition, and that national character is of greater value than material comfort and prosperity. EOS and this is the order of thought in plato; first, he expects his citizens to do their duty, and then under favourable circumstances, that is to say, in a well-ordered state, their happiness is assured. EOS (2) the conception of a whole as lying at the foundation both of politics and of art, in the latter supplying the only principle of criticism, which, under the various names of harmony, symmetry, measure, proportion, unity, the greek seems to have applied to works of art. EOS (4) the humorous pictures of the lean dogs and the fatted sheep, of the light active boxer upsetting two stout gentlemen at least, of the 'charming' patients who are always making themselves worse; or again, the playful assumption that there is no state but our own; or the grave irony with which the statesman is excused who believes that he is six feet high because he is told so, and having nothing to measure with is to be pardoned for his ignorance--he is too amusing for us to be seriously angry with him. EOS son of ariston, tell me where. EOS light a candle and search the city, and get your brother and the rest of our friends to help in seeking for her. EOS 'that won't do,' replied glaucon, 'you yourself promised to make the search and talked about the impiety of deserting justice.' EOS my notion is, that our state being perfect will contain all the four virtues--wisdom, courage, temperance, justice. EOS if we eliminate the three first, the unknown remainder will be justice. EOS and policy is one among many kinds of skill,--not the skill of the carpenter, or of the worker in metal, or of the husbandman, but the skill of him who advises about the interests of the whole state. EOS of such a kind is the skill of the guardians, who are a small class in number, far smaller than the blacksmiths; but in them is concentrated the wisdom of the state. EOS and if this small ruling class have wisdom, then the whole state will be wise. EOS our second virtue is courage, which we have no difficulty in finding in another class--that of soldiers. EOS courage may be defined as a sort of salvation--the never-failing salvation of the opinions which law and education have prescribed concerning dangers. EOS you know the way in which dyers first prepare the white ground and then lay on the dye of purple or of any other colour. EOS colours dyed in this way become fixed, and no soap or lye will ever wash them out. EOS two virtues remain; temperance and justice. EOS more than the preceding virtues temperance suggests the idea of harmony. EOS some light is thrown upon the nature of this virtue by the popular description of a man as 'master of himself'--which has an absurd sound, because the master is also the servant. EOS now to which of these classes does temperance belong? EOS and our state if any will be the abode of temperance; and we were right in describing this virtue as a harmony which is diffused through the whole, making the dwellers in the city to be of one mind, and attuning the upper and middle and lower classes like the strings of an instrument, whether you suppose them to differ in wisdom, strength or wealth. EOS tell me, if you see the thicket move first. EOS well then, offer up a prayer and follow. EOS the way is dark and difficult; but we must push on. EOS 'good news.' EOS why, glaucon, our dulness of scent is quite ludicrous! EOS while we are straining our eyes into the distance, justice is tumbling out at our feet. EOS we are as bad as people looking for a thing which they have in their hands. EOS have you forgotten our old principle of the division of labour, or of every man doing his own business, concerning which we spoke at the foundation of the state--what but this was justice? EOS is there any other virtue remaining which can compete with wisdom and temperance and courage in the scale of political virtue? EOS for 'every one having his own' is the great object of government; and the great object of trade is that every man should do his own business. EOS not that there is much harm in a carpenter trying to be a cobbler, or a cobbler transforming himself into a carpenter; but great evil may arise from the cobbler leaving his last and turning into a guardian or legislator, or when a single individual is trainer, warrior, legislator, all in one. EOS i do not say that as yet we are in a condition to arrive at a final conclusion. EOS having read the large letters we will now come back to the small. EOS from the two together a brilliant light may be struck out...  socrates proceeds to discover the nature of justice by a method of residues. EOS the modern logician will be inclined to object that ideas cannot be separated like chemical substances, but that they run into one another and may be only different aspects or names of the same thing, and such in this instance appears to be the case. EOS temperance appears to be the virtue of a part only, and one of three, whereas justice is a universal virtue of the whole soul. EOS justice seems to differ from temperance in degree rather than in kind; whereas temperance is the harmony of discordant elements, justice is the perfect order by which all natures and classes do their own business, the right man in the right place, the division and co-operation of all the citizens. EOS the proposal to omit temperance is a mere trick of style intended to avoid monotony. EOS there is a famous question discussed in one of the earlier dialogues of plato (protagoras; arist. EOS nic. EOS ethics), 'whether the virtues are one or many?' EOS to this universal conception of justice or order in the first education and in the moral nature of man, the still more universal conception of the good in the second education and in the sphere of speculative knowledge seems to succeed. EOS both might be equally described by the terms 'law,' 'order,' 'harmony;' but while the idea of good embraces 'all time and all existence,' the conception of justice is not extended beyond man. EOS ...socrates is now going to identify the individual and the state. EOS his argument is as follows:--quantity makes no difference in quality. EOS and the term 'justice' implied that the same three principles in the state and in the individual were doing their own business. EOS but are they really three or one? EOS the question is difficult, and one which can hardly be solved by the methods which we are now using; but the truer and longer way would take up too much of our time. EOS well then, you would admit that the qualities of states mean the qualities of the individuals who compose them? EOS the scythians and thracians are passionate, our own race intellectual, and the egyptians and phoenicians covetous, because the individual members of each have such and such a character; the difficulty is to determine whether the several principles are one or three; whether, that is to say, we reason with one part of our nature, desire with another, are angry with another, or whether the whole soul comes into play in each sort of action. EOS this enquiry, however, requires a very exact definition of terms. EOS the same thing in the same relation cannot be affected in two opposite ways. EOS but there is no impossibility in a man standing still, yet moving his arms, or in a top which is fixed on one spot going round upon its axis. EOS when relative terms have no attributes, their correlatives have no attributes; when they have attributes, their correlatives also have them. EOS but on the other hand, a particular knowledge is of a particular subject. EOS again, every science has a distinct character, which is defined by an object; medicine, for example, is the science of health, although not to be confounded with health. EOS the two impulses are contradictory; and therefore we may assume that they spring from distinct principles in the soul. EOS but is passion a third principle, or akin to desire? EOS there is a story of a certain leontius which throws some light on this question. EOS he was coming up from the piraeus outside the north wall, and he passed a spot where there were dead bodies lying by the executioner. EOS he felt a longing desire to see them and also an abhorrence of them; at first he turned away and shut his eyes, then, suddenly tearing them open, he said,--'take your fill, ye wretches, of the fair sight.' EOS this shows that passion is the ally of reason. EOS is passion then the same with reason? EOS no, for the former exists in children and brutes; and homer affords a proof of the distinction between them when he says, 'he smote his breast, and thus rebuked his soul.' EOS and now, at last, we have reached firm ground, and are able to infer that the virtues of the state and of the individual are the same. EOS for wisdom and courage and justice in the state are severally the wisdom and courage and justice in the individuals who form the state. EOS the counsellor and the warrior, the head and the arm, will act together in the town of mansoul, and keep the desires in proper subjection. EOS the courage of the warrior is that quality which preserves a right opinion about dangers in spite of pleasures and pains. EOS the virtue of temperance is the friendship of the ruling and the subject principles, both in the state and in the individual. EOS will the just state or the just individual steal, lie, commit adultery, or be guilty of impiety to gods and men? EOS and is not the reason of this that the several principles, whether in the state or in the individual, do their own business? EOS and justice is the quality which makes just men and just states. EOS and virtue is the health and beauty and well-being of the soul, and vice is the disease and weakness and deformity of the soul. EOS again the old question returns upon us: is justice or injustice the more profitable? EOS the question has become ridiculous. EOS for injustice, like mortal disease, makes life not worth having. EOS come up with me to the hill which overhangs the city and look down upon the single form of virtue, and the infinite forms of vice, among which are four special ones, characteristic both of states and of individuals. EOS and the criterion which he proposes is difference in the working of the faculties. EOS the same faculty cannot produce contradictory effects. EOS this leads him into a tiresome digression, which is intended to explain the nature of contradiction. EOS first, the contradiction must be at the same time and in the same relation. EOS and still there remains an exception to the rule in the use of the term 'good,' which is always implied in the object of desire. EOS the psychology of plato extends no further than the division of the soul into the rational, irascible, and concupiscent elements, which, as far as we know, was first made by him, and has been retained by aristotle and succeeding ethical writers. EOS the chief difficulty in this early analysis of the mind is to define exactly the place of the irascible faculty (greek), which may be variously described under the terms righteous indignation, spirit, passion. EOS it is the foundation of courage, which includes in plato moral courage, the courage of enduring pain, and of surmounting intellectual difficulties, as well as of meeting dangers in war. EOS though irrational, it inclines to side with the rational: it cannot be aroused by punishment when justly inflicted: it sometimes takes the form of an enthusiasm which sustains a man in the performance of great actions. EOS it is the 'lion heart' with which the reason makes a treaty. EOS on the other hand it is negative rather than positive; it is indignant at wrong or falsehood, but does not, like love in the symposium and phaedrus, aspire to the vision of truth or good. EOS it differs from anger (greek), this latter term having no accessory notion of righteous indignation. EOS although aristotle has retained the word, yet we may observe that 'passion' (greek) has with him lost its affinity to the rational and has become indistinguishable from 'anger' (greek). EOS and to this vernacular use plato himself in the laws seems to revert, though not always. EOS by modern philosophy too, as well as in our ordinary conversation, the words anger or passion are employed almost exclusively in a bad sense; there is no connotation of a just or reasonable cause by which they are aroused. EOS the feeling of 'righteous indignation' is too partial and accidental to admit of our regarding it as a separate virtue or habit. EOS we are tempted also to doubt whether plato is right in supposing that an offender, however justly condemned, could be expected to acknowledge the justice of his sentence; this is the spirit of a philosopher or martyr rather than of a criminal. EOS the words 'as healthy practices (greek) produce health, so do just practices produce justice,' have a sound very like the nicomachean ethics. EOS but we note also that an incidental remark in plato has become a far-reaching principle in aristotle, and an inseparable part of a great ethical system. EOS how he would have filled up the sketch, or argued about such questions from a higher point of view, we can only conjecture. EOS perhaps he hoped to find some a priori method of developing the parts out of the whole; or he might have asked which of the ideas contains the other ideas, and possibly have stumbled on the hegelian identity of the 'ego' and the 'universal.' EOS or he may have imagined that ideas might be constructed in some manner analogous to the construction of figures and numbers in the mathematical sciences. EOS the most certain and necessary truth was to plato the universal; and to this he was always seeking to refer all knowledge or opinion, just as in modern times we seek to rest them on the opposite pole of induction and experience. EOS we are not therefore surprized to find that plato himself has nowhere clearly explained his doctrine of ideas; or that his school in a later generation, like his contemporaries glaucon and adeimantus, were unable to follow him in this region of speculation. EOS in the sophist, where he is refuting the scepticism which maintained either that there was no such thing as predication, or that all might be predicated of all, he arrives at the conclusion that some ideas combine with some, but not all with all. EOS book v. i was going to enumerate the four forms of vice or decline in states, when polemarchus--he was sitting a little farther from me than adeimantus--taking him by the coat and leaning towards him, said something in an undertone, of which i only caught the words, 'shall we let him off?' EOS 'you,' he said. EOS why? EOS and was i not right? EOS 'yes,' he replied, 'but there are many sorts of communism or community, and we want to know which of them is right. EOS the company, as you have just heard, are resolved to have a further explanation.' EOS thrasymachus said, 'do you think that we have come hither to dig for gold, or to hear you discourse?' EOS yes, i said; but the discourse should be of a reasonable length. EOS well, i said, the subject has several difficulties--what is possible? EOS 'fear not,' he replied, 'for you are speaking among friends.' EOS that, i replied, is a sorry consolation; i shall destroy my friends as well as myself. EOS now dogs are not divided into hes and shes--we do not take the masculine gender out to hunt and leave the females at home to look after their puppies. EOS i know that a great joke will be made of their riding on horseback and carrying weapons; the sight of the naked old wrinkled women showing their agility in the palaestra will certainly not be a vision of beauty, and may be expected to become a famous jest. EOS but we must not mind the wits; there was a time when they might have laughed at our present gymnastics. EOS all is habit: people have at last found out that the exposure is better than the concealment of the person, and now they laugh no more. EOS evil only should be the subject of ridicule. EOS and here we may be charged with inconsistency in making the proposal at all. EOS for we started originally with the division of labour; and the diversity of employments was based on the difference of natures. EOS but is there no difference between men and women? EOS nay, are they not wholly different? EOS however, when a man is out of his depth, whether in a pool or in an ocean, he can only swim for his life; and we must try to find a way of escape, if we can. EOS the argument is, that different natures have different uses, and the natures of men and women are said to differ. EOS but this is only a verbal opposition. EOS now why is such an inference erroneous? EOS and if the difference of the sexes is only that the one beget and the other bear children, this does not prove that they ought to have distinct educations. EOS admitting that women differ from men in capacity, do not men equally differ from one another? EOS has not nature scattered all the qualities which our citizens require indifferently up and down among the two sexes? EOS and even in their peculiar pursuits, are not women often, though in some cases superior to men, ridiculously enough surpassed by them? EOS if however their natures are the same, the inference is that their education must also be the same; there is no longer anything unnatural or impossible in a woman learning music and gymnastic. EOS and the education which we give them will be the very best, far superior to that of cobblers, and will train up the very best women, and nothing can be more advantageous to the state than this. EOS therefore let them strip, clothed in their chastity, and share in the toils of war and in the defence of their country; he who laughs at them is a fool for his pains. EOS a second and greater wave is rolling in--community of wives and children; is this either expedient or possible? EOS 'nay, i think that a considerable doubt will be entertained on both points.' EOS only allow me to feed my fancy like the solitary in his walks, with a dream of what might be, and then i will return to the question of what can be. EOS you, as legislator, have already selected the men; and now you shall select the women. EOS after the selection has been made, they will dwell in common houses and have their meals in common, and will be brought together by a necessity more certain than that of mathematics. EOS but they cannot be allowed to live in licentiousness; that is an unholy thing, which the rulers are determined to prevent. EOS for the avoidance of this, holy marriage festivals will be instituted, and their holiness will be in proportion to their usefulness. EOS and here, glaucon, i should like to ask (as i know that you are a breeder of birds and animals), do you not take the greatest care in the mating? EOS and there is no reason to suppose that less care is required in the marriage of human beings. EOS the mothers will be brought to the fold and will suckle the children; care however must be taken that none of them recognise their own offspring; and if necessary other nurses may also be hired. EOS 'then the wives of our guardians will have a fine easy time when they are having children.' EOS and quite right too, i said, that they should. EOS this latter regulation applies to those who are within the specified ages, after which they may range at will, provided they avoid the prohibited degrees of parents and children, or of brothers and sisters, which last, however, are not absolutely prohibited, if a dispensation be procured. EOS 'but how shall we know the degrees of affinity, when all things are common?' EOS the answer is, that brothers and sisters are all such as are born seven or nine months after the espousals, and their parents those who are then espoused, and every one will have many children and every child many parents. EOS for the true state, like an individual, is injured as a whole when any part is affected. EOS and whereas in other states members of the same government regard one of their colleagues as a friend and another as an enemy, in our state no man is a stranger to another; for every citizen is connected with every other by ties of blood, and these names and this way of speaking will have a corresponding reality--brother, father, sister, mother, repeated from infancy in the ears of children, will not be mere words. EOS then again the citizens will have all things in common, in having common property they will have common pleasures and pains. EOS can there be strife and contention among those who are of one mind; or lawsuits about property when men have nothing but their bodies which they call their own; or suits about violence when every one is bound to defend himself? EOS the permission to strike when insulted will be an 'antidote' to the knife and will prevent disturbances in the state. EOS moreover, our citizens will be rid of the lesser evils of life; there will be no flattery of the rich, no sordid household cares, no borrowing and not paying. EOS compared with the citizens of other states, ours will be olympic victors, and crowned with blessings greater still--they and their children having a better maintenance during life, and after death an honourable burial. EOS nor has the happiness of the individual been sacrificed to the happiness of the state; our olympic victor has not been turned into a cobbler, but he has a happiness beyond that of any cobbler. EOS at the same time, if any conceited youth begins to dream of appropriating the state to himself, he must be reminded that 'half is better than the whole.' EOS 'i should certainly advise him to stay where he is when he has the promise of such a brave life.' EOS about war there is no difficulty; the principle of communism is adapted to military service. EOS parents will take their children to look on at a battle, just as potters' boys are trained to the business by looking on at the wheel. EOS and to the parents themselves, as to other animals, the sight of their young ones will prove a great incentive to bravery. EOS young warriors must learn, but they must not run into danger, although a certain degree of risk is worth incurring when the benefit is great. EOS the young creatures should be placed under the care of experienced veterans, and they should have wings--that is to say, swift and tractable steeds on which they may fly away and escape. EOS one of the first things to be done is to teach a youth to ride. EOS we have already determined that he shall have more wives than others, in order that he may have as many children as possible. EOS and at a feast he shall have more to eat; we have the authority of homer for honouring brave men with 'long chines,' which is an appropriate compliment, because meat is a very strengthening thing. EOS fill the bowl then, and give the best seats and meats to the brave--may they do them good! EOS and he who dies in battle will be at once declared to be of the golden race, and will, as we believe, become one of hesiod's guardian angels. EOS the next question is, how shall we treat our enemies? EOS shall hellenes be enslaved? EOS no; for there is too great a risk of the whole race passing under the yoke of the barbarians. EOS or shall the dead be despoiled? EOS certainly not; for that sort of thing is an excuse for skulking, and has been the ruin of many an army. EOS again, the arms of hellenes should not be offered up in the temples of the gods; they are a pollution, for they are taken from brethren. EOS for war is of two kinds, civil and foreign; the first of which is properly termed 'discord,' and only the second 'war;' and war between hellenes is in reality civil war--a quarrel in a family, which is ever to be regarded as unpatriotic and unnatural, and ought to be prosecuted with a view to reconciliation in a true phil-hellenic spirit, as of those who would chasten but not utterly enslave. EOS that is the way in which hellenes should war against one another--and against barbarians, as they war against one another now. EOS 'but, my dear socrates, you are forgetting the main question: is such a state possible? EOS i grant all and more than you say about the blessedness of being one family--fathers, brothers, mothers, daughters, going out to war together; but i want to ascertain the possibility of this ideal state.' EOS you are too unmerciful. EOS the first wave and the second wave i have hardly escaped, and now you will certainly drown me with the third. EOS 'not a whit.' EOS is this ideal at all the worse for being impracticable? EOS would the picture of a perfectly beautiful man be any the worse because no such man ever lived? EOS can any reality come up to the idea? EOS until, then, kings are philosophers, or philosophers are kings, cities will never cease from ill: no, nor the human race; nor will our ideal polity ever come into being. EOS i know that this is a hard saying, which few will be able to receive. EOS 'socrates, all the world will take off his coat and rush upon you with sticks and stones, and therefore i would advise you to prepare an answer.' EOS you got me into the scrape, i said. EOS and first, i must explain of whom i speak and what sort of natures these are who are to be philosophers and rulers. EOS as you are a man of pleasure, you will not have forgotten how indiscriminate lovers are in their attachments; they love all, and turn blemishes into beauties. EOS now here comes the point:--the philosopher too is a lover of knowledge in every form; he has an insatiable curiosity. EOS 'but will curiosity make a philosopher? EOS are the lovers of sights and sounds, who let out their ears to every chorus at the dionysiac festivals, to be called philosophers?' EOS they are not true philosophers, but only an imitation. EOS 'then how are we to describe the true?' EOS you would acknowledge the existence of abstract ideas, such as justice, beauty, good, evil, which are severally one, yet in their various combinations appear to be many. EOS perhaps he of whom we say the last will be angry with us; can we pacify him without revealing the disorder of his mind? EOS opinion and knowledge, then, having distinct objects, must also be distinct faculties. EOS and by faculties i mean powers unseen and distinguishable only by the difference in their objects, as opinion and knowledge differ, since the one is liable to err, but the other is unerring and is the mightiest of all our faculties. EOS if being is the object of knowledge, and not-being of ignorance, and these are the extremes, opinion must lie between them, and may be called darker than the one and brighter than the other. EOS this intermediate or contingent matter is and is not at the same time, and partakes both of existence and of non-existence. EOS now i would ask my good friend, who denies abstract beauty and justice, and affirms a many beautiful and a many just, whether everything he sees is not in some point of view different--the beautiful ugly, the pious impious, the just unjust? EOS is not the double also the half, and are not heavy and light relative terms which pass into one another? EOS the mind cannot be fixed on either alternative; and these ambiguous, intermediate, erring, half-lighted objects, which have a disorderly movement in the region between being and not-being, are the proper matter of opinion, as the immutable objects are the proper matter of knowledge. EOS and he who grovels in the world of sense, and has only this uncertain perception of things, is not a philosopher, but a lover of opinion only...  the fifth book is the new beginning of the republic, in which the community of property and of family are first maintained, and the transition is made to the kingdom of philosophers. EOS for both of these plato, after his manner, has been preparing in some chance words of book iv, which fall unperceived on the reader's mind, as they are supposed at first to have fallen on the ear of glaucon and adeimantus. EOS first, there is the image of the waves, which serves for a sort of scheme or plan of the book. EOS the first wave, the second wave, the third and greatest wave come rolling in, and we hear the roar of them. EOS nothing is more admirable than the hesitation with which he proposes the solemn text, 'until kings are philosophers,' etc. EOS ; or the reaction from the sublime to the ridiculous, when glaucon describes the manner in which the new truth will be received by mankind. EOS it is quite possible that a child born at one hymeneal festival may marry one of its own brothers or sisters, or even one of its parents, at another. EOS if it were worth while to argue seriously about such fancies, we might remark that while all the old affinities are abolished, the newly prohibited affinity rests not on any natural or rational principle, but only upon the accident of children having been born in the same month and year. EOS nor does he explain how the lots could be so manipulated by the legislature as to bring together the fairest and best. EOS the singular expression which is employed to describe the age of five-and-twenty may perhaps be taken from some poet. EOS in the delineation of the philosopher, the illustrations of the nature of philosophy derived from love are more suited to the apprehension of glaucon, the athenian man of pleasure, than to modern tastes or feelings. EOS at the end of the fifth book plato introduces the figment of contingent matter, which has exercised so great an influence both on the ethics and theology of the modern world, and which occurs here for the first time in the history of philosophy. EOS he did not remark that the degrees of knowledge in the subject have nothing corresponding to them in the object. EOS with him a word must answer to an idea; and he could not conceive of an opinion which was an opinion about nothing. EOS the influence of analogy led him to invent 'parallels and conjugates' and to overlook facts. EOS in the theaetetus the first of these difficulties begins to clear up; in the sophist the second; and for this, as well as for other reasons, both these dialogues are probably to be regarded as later than the republic. EOS book vi. EOS having determined that the many have no knowledge of true being, and have no clear patterns in their minds of justice, beauty, truth, and that philosophers have such patterns, we have now to ask whether they or the many shall be rulers in our state. EOS but who can doubt that philosophers should be chosen, if they have the other qualities which are required in a ruler? EOS for they are lovers of the knowledge of the eternal and of all truth; they are haters of falsehood; their meaner desires are absorbed in the interests of knowledge; they are spectators of all time and all existence; and in the magnificence of their contemplation the life of man is as nothing to them, nor is death fearful. EOS they learn and remember easily; they have harmonious, well-regulated minds; truth flows to them sweetly by nature. EOS here adeimantus interposes:--'no man can answer you, socrates; but every man feels that this is owing to his own deficiency in argument. EOS he is driven from one position to another, until he has nothing more to say, just as an unskilful player at draughts is reduced to his last move by a more skilled opponent. EOS he may know, in this very instance, that those who make philosophy the business of their lives, generally turn out rogues if they are bad men, and fools if they are good. EOS what do you say?' EOS the relation of good men to their governments is so peculiar, that in order to defend them i must take an illustration from the world of fiction. EOS if the helm is refused them, they drug the captain's posset, bind him hand and foot, and take possession of the ship. EOS now the pilot is the philosopher--he whom in the parable they call star-gazer, and the mutinous sailors are the mob of politicians by whom he is rendered useless. EOS not that these are the worst enemies of philosophy, who is far more dishonoured by her own professing sons when they are corrupted by the world. EOS did we not say of him just now, that he loved truth and hated falsehood, and that he could not rest in the multiplicity of phenomena, but was led by a sympathy in his own nature to the contemplation of the absolute? EOS all the virtues as well as truth, who is the leader of them, took up their abode in his soul. EOS the point which has to be considered, is the origin of this corruption in nature. EOS every one will admit that the philosopher, in our description of him, is a rare being. EOS there is no good thing which may not be a cause of evil--health, wealth, strength, rank, and the virtues themselves, when placed under unfavourable circumstances. EOS for as in the animal or vegetable world the strongest seeds most need the accompaniment of good air and soil, so the best of human characters turn out the worst when they fall upon an unsuitable soil; whereas weak natures hardly ever do any considerable good or harm; they are not the stuff out of which either great criminals or great heroes are made. EOS the philosopher follows the same analogy: he is either the best or the worst of all men. EOS will not a young man's heart leap amid these discordant sounds? EOS and will any education save him from being carried away by the torrent? EOS what principle of rival sophists or anybody else can overcome in such an unequal contest? EOS characters there may be more than human, who are exceptions--god may save a man, but not his own strength. EOS good is what pleases him, evil what he dislikes; truth and beauty are determined only by the taste of the brute. EOS such is the sophist's wisdom, and such is the condition of those who make public opinion the test of truth, whether in art or in morals. EOS the curse is laid upon them of being and doing what it approves, and when they attempt first principles the failure is ludicrous. EOS think of all this and ask yourself whether the world is more likely to be a believer in the unity of the idea, or in the multiplicity of phenomena. EOS and the world if not a believer in the idea cannot be a philosopher, and must therefore be a persecutor of philosophers. EOS there is another evil:--the world does not like to lose the gifted nature, and so they flatter the young (alcibiades) into a magnificent opinion of his own capacity; the tall, proper youth begins to expand, and is dreaming of kingdoms and empires. EOS are we not right in saying that the love of knowledge, no less than riches, may divert him? EOS men of this class (critias) often become politicians--they are the authors of great mischief in states, and sometimes also of great good. EOS a clever mechanic having a soul coarse as his body, thinks that he will gain caste by becoming her suitor. EOS for philosophy, even in her fallen estate, has a dignity of her own--and he, like a bald little blacksmith's apprentice as he is, having made some money and got out of durance, washes and dresses himself as a bridegroom and marries his master's daughter. EOS what will be the issue of such marriages? EOS another question is, which of existing states is suited to her? EOS not one of them; at present she is like some exotic seed which degenerates in a strange soil; only in her proper state will she be shown to be of heavenly growth. EOS ours in all points but one, which was left undetermined. EOS but we were afraid to enter upon a subject of such difficulty, and now the question recurs and has not grown easier:--how may philosophy be safely studied? EOS let us bring her into the light of day, and make an end of the inquiry. EOS persons usually pick up a little philosophy in early youth, and in the intervals of business, but they never master the real difficulty, which is dialectic. EOS years advance, and the sun of philosophy, unlike that of heracleitus, sets never to rise again. EOS this order of education should be reversed; it should begin with gymnastics in youth, and as the man strengthens, he should increase the gymnastics of his soul. EOS do not make a quarrel between thrasymachus and me, who were never enemies and are now good friends enough. EOS and i shall do my best to convince him and all mankind of the truth of my words, or at any rate to prepare for the future when, in another life, we may again take part in similar discussions. EOS 'that will be a long time hence.' EOS not long in comparison with eternity. EOS the many will probably remain incredulous, for they have never seen the natural unity of ideas, but only artificial juxtapositions; not free and generous thoughts, but tricks of controversy and quips of law;--a perfect man ruling in a perfect state, even a single one they have not known. EOS and we foresaw that there was no chance of perfection either in states or individuals until a necessity was laid upon philosophers--not the rogues, but those whom we called the useless class--of holding office; or until the sons of kings were inspired with a true love of philosophy. EOS whether in the infinity of past time there has been, or is in some distant land, or ever will be hereafter, an ideal such as we have described, we stoutly maintain that there has been, is, and will be such a state whenever the muse of philosophy rules. EOS will you say that the world is of another mind? EOS o, my friend, do not revile the world! EOS or be jealous of one who has no jealousy? EOS for the true philosopher despises earthly strife; his eye is fixed on the eternal order in accordance with which he moulds himself into the divine image (and not himself only, but other men), and is the creator of the virtues private as well as public. EOS 'certainly not. EOS but what will be the process of delineation?' EOS the artist will do nothing until he has made a tabula rasa; on this he will inscribe the constitution of a state, glancing often at the divine truth of nature, and from that deriving the godlike among men, mingling the two elements, rubbing out and painting in, until there is a perfect harmony or fusion of the divine and human. EOS but perhaps the world will doubt the existence of such an artist. EOS what will they doubt? EOS still, a person may hesitate about the probability of the son of a king being a philosopher. EOS and we do not deny that they are very liable to be corrupted; but yet surely in the course of ages there might be one exception--and one is enough. EOS if one son of a king were a philosopher, and had obedient citizens, he might bring the ideal polity into being. EOS hence we conclude that our laws are not only the best, but that they are also possible, though not free from difficulty. EOS i gained nothing by evading the troublesome questions which arose concerning women and children. EOS i will be wiser now and acknowledge that we must go to the bottom of another question: what is to be the education of our guardians? EOS it was agreed that they were to be lovers of their country, and were to be tested in the refiner's fire of pleasures and pains, and those who came forth pure and remained fixed in their principles were to have honours and rewards in life and after death. EOS but at this point, the argument put on her veil and turned into another path. EOS i hesitated to make the assertion which i now hazard,--that our guardians must be philosophers. EOS you remember all the contradictory elements, which met in the philosopher--how difficult to find them all in a single person! EOS and yet these opposite elements are all necessary, and therefore, as we were saying before, the aspirant must be tested in pleasures and dangers; and also, as we must now further add, in the highest branches of knowledge. EOS you will remember, that when we spoke of the virtues mention was made of a longer road, which you were satisfied to leave unexplored. EOS enough, my friend; but what is enough while anything remains wanting? EOS of all men the guardian must not faint in the search after truth; he must be prepared to take the longer road, or he will never reach that higher region which is above the four virtues; and of the virtues too he must not only get an outline, but a clear and distinct vision. EOS (strange that we should be so precise about trifles, so careless about the highest truths!) EOS you to pretend unconsciousness, when you have so often heard me speak of the idea of good, about which we know so little, and without which though a man gain the world he has no profit of it! EOS some people imagine that the good is wisdom; but this involves a circle,--the good, they say, is wisdom, wisdom has to do with the good. EOS according to others the good is pleasure; but then comes the absurdity that good is bad, for there are bad pleasures as well as good. EOS again, the good must have reality; a man may desire the appearance of virtue, but he will not desire the appearance of good. EOS ought our guardians then to be ignorant of this supreme principle, of which every man has a presentiment, and without which no man has any real knowledge of anything? EOS 'but, socrates, what is this supreme principle, knowledge or pleasure, or what? EOS you may think me troublesome, but i say that you have no business to be always repeating the doctrines of others instead of giving us your own.' EOS can i say what i do not know? EOS 'you may offer an opinion.' EOS 'i will only ask you to give such an explanation of the good as you have given already of temperance and justice.' EOS (audit the account, and do not let me give you a false statement of the debt.) EOS you remember our old distinction of the many beautiful and the one beautiful, the particular and the universal, the objects of sight and the objects of thought? EOS did you ever consider that the objects of sight imply a faculty of sight which is the most complex and costly of our senses, requiring not only objects of sense, but also a medium, which is light; without which the sight will not distinguish between colours and all will be a blank? EOS for light is the noble bond between the perceiving faculty and the thing perceived, and the god who gives us light is the sun, who is the eye of the day, but is not to be confounded with the eye of man. EOS this eye of the day or sun is what i call the child of the good, standing in the same relation to the visible world as the good to the intellectual. EOS now that which is the sun of intelligent natures, is the idea of good, the cause of knowledge and truth, yet other and fairer than they are, and standing in the same relation to them in which the sun stands to light. EOS o inconceivable height of beauty, which is above knowledge and above truth! EOS ('you cannot surely mean pleasure,' he said. EOS peace, i replied.) EOS 'that is a reach of thought more than human; but, pray, go on with the image, for i suspect that there is more behind.' EOS the lower portion of the lower or visible sphere will consist of shadows and reflections, and its upper and smaller portion will contain real objects in the world of nature or of art. EOS the sphere of the intelligible will also have two divisions,--one of mathematics, in which there is no ascent but all is descent; no inquiring into premises, but only drawing of inferences. EOS whereas in the other division reason uses the hypotheses as stages or steps in the ascent to the idea of good, to which she fastens them, and then again descends, walking firmly in the region of ideas, and of ideas only, in her ascent as well as descent, and finally resting in them. EOS 'i partly understand,' he replied; 'you mean that the ideas of science are superior to the hypothetical, metaphorical conceptions of geometry and the other arts or sciences, whichever is to be the name of them; and the latter conceptions you refuse to make subjects of pure intellect, because they have no first principle, although when resting on a first principle, they pass into the higher sphere.' EOS you understand me very well, i said. EOS and now to those four divisions of knowledge you may assign four corresponding faculties--pure intelligence to the highest sphere; active intelligence to the second; to the third, faith; to the fourth, the perception of shadows--and the clearness of the several faculties will be in the same ratio as the truth of the objects to which they are related...  like socrates, we may recapitulate the virtues of the philosopher. EOS in language which seems to reach beyond the horizon of that age and country, he is described as 'the spectator of all time and all existence.' EOS he has the noblest gifts of nature, and makes the highest use of them. EOS all his desires are absorbed in the love of wisdom, which is the love of truth. EOS the ideal of modern times hardly retains the simplicity of the antique; there is not the same originality either in truth or error which characterized the greeks. EOS the philosopher is no longer living in the unseen, nor is he sent by an oracle to convince mankind of ignorance; nor does he regard knowledge as a system of ideas leading upwards by regular stages to the idea of good. EOS the eagerness of the pursuit has abated; there is more division of labour and less of comprehensive reflection upon nature and human life as a whole; more of exact observation and less of anticipation and inspiration. EOS still, in the altered conditions of knowledge, the parallel is not wholly lost; and there may be a use in translating the conception of plato into the language of our own age. EOS the philosopher in modern times is one who fixes his mind on the laws of nature in their sequence and connexion, not on fragments or pictures of nature; on history, not on controversy; on the truths which are acknowledged by the few, not on the opinions of the many. EOS there is no part of truth, whether great or small, which he will dishonour; and in the least things he will discern the greatest (parmen.). EOS he has a clearer conception of the divisions of science and of their relation to the mind of man than was possible to the ancients. EOS like plato, he has a vision of the unity of knowledge, not as the beginning of philosophy to be attained by a study of elementary mathematics, but as the far-off result of the working of many minds in many ages. EOS he is aware that mathematical studies are preliminary to almost every other; at the same time, he will not reduce all varieties of knowledge to the type of mathematics. EOS he too must have a nobility of character, without which genius loses the better half of greatness. EOS regarding the world as a point in immensity, and each individual as a link in a never-ending chain of existence, he will not think much of his own life, or be greatly afraid of death. EOS adeimantus objects first of all to the form of the socratic reasoning, thus showing that plato is aware of the imperfection of his own method. EOS he brings the accusation against himself which might be brought against him by a modern logician--that he extracts the answer because he knows how to put the question. EOS in a long argument words are apt to change their meaning slightly, or premises may be assumed or conclusions inferred with rather too much certainty or universality; the variation at each step may be unobserved, and yet at last the divergence becomes considerable. EOS hence the failure of attempts to apply arithmetical or algebraic formulae to logic. EOS and this quality in language impairs the force of an argument which has many steps. EOS the objection, though fairly met by socrates in this particular instance, may be regarded as implying a reflection upon the socratic mode of reasoning. EOS and here, as elsewhere, plato seems to intimate that the time had come when the negative and interrogative method of socrates must be superseded by a positive and constructive one, of which examples are given in some of the later dialogues. EOS in this allegory the people are distinguished from the professional politicians, and, as elsewhere, are spoken of in a tone of pity rather than of censure under the image of 'the noble captain who is not very quick in his perceptions.' EOS the uselessness of philosophers is explained by the circumstance that mankind will not use them. EOS the world in all ages has been divided between contempt and fear of those who employ the power of ideas and know no other weapons. EOS we too observe that there are some kinds of excellence which spring from a peculiar delicacy of constitution; as is evidently true of the poetical and imaginative temperament, which often seems to depend on impressions, and hence can only breathe or live in a certain atmosphere. EOS the man of genius has greater pains and greater pleasures, greater powers and greater weaknesses, and often a greater play of character than is to be found in ordinary men. EOS he can assume the disguise of virtue or disinterestedness without having them, or veil personal enmity in the language of patriotism and philosophy,--he can say the word which all men are thinking, he has an insight which is terrible into the follies and weaknesses of his fellow-men. EOS an alcibiades, a mirabeau, or a napoleon the first, are born either to be the authors of great evils in states, or 'of great good, when they are drawn in that direction.' EOS yet the thesis, 'corruptio optimi pessima,' cannot be maintained generally or without regard to the kind of excellence which is corrupted. EOS in general a man can only receive his highest development in a congenial state or family, among friends or fellow-workers. EOS but also he may sometimes be stirred by adverse circumstances to such a degree that he rises up against them and reforms them. EOS and while weaker or coarser characters will extract good out of evil, say in a corrupt state of the church or of society, and live on happily, allowing the evil to remain, the finer or stronger natures may be crushed or spoiled by surrounding influences--may become misanthrope and philanthrope by turns; or in a few instances, like the founders of the monastic orders, or the reformers, owing to some peculiarity in themselves or in their age, may break away entirely from the world and from the church, sometimes into great good, sometimes into great evil, sometimes into both. EOS and the same holds in the lesser sphere of a convent, a school, a family. EOS plato would have us consider how easily the best natures are overpowered by public opinion, and what efforts the rest of mankind will make to get possession of them. EOS the individual becomes one with his order; or, if he resists, the world is too much for him, and will sooner or later be revenged on him. EOS this is, perhaps, a one-sided but not wholly untrue picture of the maxims and practice of mankind when they 'sit down together at an assembly,' either in ancient or modern times. EOS this is described in one of those continuous images in which the argument, to use a platonic expression, 'veils herself,' and which is dropped and reappears at intervals. EOS and yet there is also a better mind of the many; they would believe if they were taught. EOS but hitherto they have only known a conventional imitation of philosophy, words without thoughts, systems which have no life in them; a (divine) person uttering the words of beauty and freedom, the friend of man holding communion with the eternal, and seeking to frame the state in that image, they have never known. EOS the same double feeling respecting the mass of mankind has always existed among men. EOS the first thought is that the people are the enemies of truth and right; the second, that this only arises out of an accidental error and confusion, and that they do not really hate those who love them, if they could be educated to know them. EOS neither here nor in the phaedrus or symposium, nor yet in the philebus or sophist, does he give any clear explanation of his meaning. EOS he would probably have described his method as proceeding by regular steps to a system of universal knowledge, which inferred the parts from the whole rather than the whole from the parts. EOS this ideal logic is not practised by him in the search after justice, or in the analysis of the parts of the soul; there, like aristotle in the nicomachean ethics, he argues from experience and the common use of language. EOS he supposes the sciences to have a natural order and connexion in an age when they can hardly be said to exist. EOS in modern times we hardly need to be reminded that the process of acquiring knowledge is here confused with the contemplation of absolute knowledge. EOS in all science a priori and a posteriori truths mingle in various proportions. EOS the a priori part is that which is derived from the most universal experience of men, or is universally accepted by them; the a posteriori is that which grows up around the more general principles and becomes imperceptibly one with them. EOS but plato erroneously imagines that the synthesis is separable from the analysis, and that the method of science can anticipate science. EOS nor can we deny that in ancient times knowledge must have stood still, and the human mind been deprived of the very instruments of thought, if philosophy had been strictly confined to the results of experience. EOS 2. plato supposes that when the tablet has been made blank the artist will fill in the lineaments of the ideal state. EOS is this a pattern laid up in heaven, or mere vacancy on which he is supposed to gaze with wondering eye? EOS as in science, so also in creative art, there is a synthetical as well as an analytical method. EOS 3. there is no difficulty in seeing that plato's divisions of knowledge are based, first, on the fundamental antithesis of sensible and intellectual which pervades the whole pre-socratic philosophy; in which is implied also the opposition of the permanent and transient, of the universal and particular. EOS but the age of philosophy in which he lived seemed to require a further distinction;--numbers and figures were beginning to separate from ideas. EOS the world could no longer regard justice as a cube, and was learning to see, though imperfectly, that the abstractions of sense were distinct from the abstractions of mind. EOS between the eleatic being or essence and the shadows of phenomena, the pythagorean principle of number found a place, and was, as aristotle remarks, a conducting medium from one to the other. EOS there is more difficulty in comprehending how he arrived at the first term of the series, which is nowhere else mentioned, and has no reference to any other part of his system. EOS probably plato has been led by the love of analogy (timaeus) to make four terms instead of three, although the objects perceived in both divisions of the lower sphere are equally objects of sense. EOS the line may be regarded as reaching from unity to infinity, and is divided into two unequal parts, and subdivided into two more; each lower sphere is the multiplication of the preceding. EOS the difference between understanding and mind or reason (greek) is analogous to the difference between acquiring knowledge in the parts and the contemplation of the whole. EOS to this self-evidencing knowledge of the whole the faculty of mind is supposed to correspond. EOS those ideas are called both images and hypotheses--images because they are clothed in sense, hypotheses because they are assumptions only, until they are brought into connexion with the idea of good. EOS the general meaning of the passage, 'noble, then, is the bond which links together sight...and of this kind i spoke as the intelligible...' so far as the thought contained in it admits of being translated into the terms of modern philosophy, may be described or explained as follows:--there is a truth, one and self-existent, to which by the help of a ladder let down from above, the human intelligence may ascend. EOS this unity is like the sun in the heavens, the light by which all things are seen, the being by which they are created and sustained. EOS it is the idea of good. EOS and the steps of the ladder leading up to this highest or universal existence are the mathematical sciences, which also contain in themselves an element of the universal. EOS these, too, we see in a new manner when we connect them with the idea of good. EOS the method of socrates is hesitating and tentative, awaiting the fuller explanation of the idea of good, and of the nature of dialectic in the seventh book. EOS the allusion to theages' bridle, and to the internal oracle, or demonic sign, of socrates, which here, as always in plato, is only prohibitory; the remark that the salvation of any remnant of good in the present evil state of the world is due to god only; the reference to a future state of existence, which is unknown to glaucon in the tenth book, and in which the discussions of socrates and his disciples would be resumed; the surprise in the answers; the fanciful irony of socrates, where he pretends that he can only describe the strange position of the philosopher in a figure of speech; the original observation that the sophists, after all, are only the representatives and not the leaders of public opinion; the picture of the philosopher standing aside in the shower of sleet under a wall; the figure of 'the great beast' followed by the expression of good-will towards the common people who would not have rejected the philosopher if they had known him; the 'right noble thought' that the highest truths demand the greatest exactness; the hesitation of socrates in returning once more to his well-worn theme of the idea of good; the ludicrous earnestness of glaucon; the comparison of philosophy to a deserted maiden who marries beneath her--are some of the most interesting characteristics of the sixth book. EOS yet a few more words may be added, on the old theme, which was so oft discussed in the socratic circle, of which we, like glaucon and adeimantus, would fain, if possible, have a clearer notion. EOS for we have learned that differences of quantity cannot pass into differences of quality, and that the mathematical sciences can never rise above themselves into the sphere of our higher thoughts, although they may sometimes furnish symbols and expressions of them, and may train the mind in habits of abstraction and self-concentration. EOS the illusion which was natural to an ancient philosopher has ceased to be an illusion to us. EOS but if the process by which we are supposed to arrive at the idea of good be really imaginary, may not the idea itself be also a mere abstraction? EOS we remark, first, that in all ages, and especially in primitive philosophy, words such as being, essence, unity, good, have exerted an extraordinary influence over the minds of men. EOS it meant unity, in which all time and all existence were gathered up. EOS it was the truth of all things, and also the light in which they shone forth, and became evident to intelligences human and divine. EOS it was the cause of all things, the power by which they were brought into being. EOS it was the universal reason divested of a human personality. EOS it was the life as well as the light of the world, all knowledge and all power were comprehended in it. EOS the way to it was through the mathematical sciences, and these too were dependent on it. EOS ideas of number, order, harmony, development may also be said to enter into it. EOS the paraphrase which has just been given of it goes beyond the actual words of plato. EOS we are beginning to realize what he saw darkly and at a distance. EOS as his words are few and his manner reticent and tentative, so must the style of his interpreter be. EOS we should not approach his meaning more nearly by attempting to define it further. EOS in translating him into the language of modern thought, we might insensibly lose the spirit of ancient philosophy. EOS it is remarkable that although plato speaks of the idea of good as the first principle of truth and being, it is nowhere mentioned in his writings except in this passage. EOS nor does the mention of it in aristotle appear to have any reference to this or any other passage in his extant writings. EOS book vii. EOS and now i will describe in a figure the enlightenment or unenlightenment of our nature:--imagine human beings living in an underground den which is open towards the light; they have been there from childhood, having their necks and legs chained, and can only see into the den. EOS behind the wall appear moving figures, who hold in their hands various works of art, and among them images of men and animals, wood and stone, and some of the passers-by are talking and others silent. EOS 'a strange parable,' he said, 'and strange captives.' EOS and suppose further, that they are dragged up a steep and rugged ascent into the presence of the sun himself, will not their sight be darkened with the excess of light? EOS how worthless to them will seem the honours and glories of the den! EOS but now imagine further, that they descend into their old habitations;--in that underground dwelling they will not see as well as their fellows, and will not be able to compete with them in the measurement of the shadows on the wall; there will be many jokes about the man who went on a visit to the sun and lost his eyes, and if they find anybody trying to set free and enlighten one of their number, they will put him to death, if they can catch him. EOS now the cave or den is the world of sight, the fire is the sun, the way upwards is the way to knowledge, and in the world of knowledge the idea of good is last seen and with difficulty, but when seen is inferred to be the author of good and right--parent of the lord of light in this world, and of truth and understanding in the other. EOS but blindness is of two kinds, and may be caused either by passing out of darkness into light or out of light into darkness, and a man of sense will distinguish between them, and will not laugh equally at both of them, but the blindness which arises from fulness of light he will deem blessed, and pity the other; or if he laugh at the puzzled soul looking at the sun, he will have more reason to laugh than the inhabitants of the den at those who descend from above. EOS there is a further lesson taught by this parable of ours. EOS some persons fancy that instruction is like giving eyes to the blind, but we say that the faculty of sight was always there, and that the soul only requires to be turned round towards the light. EOS did you never observe how the mind of a clever rogue peers out of his eyes, and the more clearly he sees, the more evil he does? EOS we must choose out therefore the natures who are most likely to ascend to the light and knowledge of the good; but we must not allow them to remain in the region of light; they must be forced down again among the captives in the den to partake of their labours and honours. EOS 'will they not think this a hardship?' EOS you should remember that our purpose in framing the state was not that our citizens should do what they like, but that they should serve the state for the common good of all. EOS may we not fairly say to our philosopher,--friend, we do you no wrong; for in other states philosophy grows wild, and a wild plant owes nothing to the gardener, but you have been trained by us to be the rulers and kings of our hive, and therefore we must insist on your descending into the den. EOS and this will be the salvation of the state. EOS for those who rule must not be those who are desirous to rule; and, if you can offer to our citizens a better life than that of rulers generally is, there will be a chance that the rich, not only in this world's goods, but in virtue and wisdom, may bear rule. EOS then now comes the question,--how shall we create our rulers; what way is there from darkness to light? EOS the change is effected by philosophy; it is not the turning over of an oyster-shell, but the conversion of a soul from night to day, from becoming to being. EOS our former education had two branches, gymnastic, which was occupied with the body, and music, the sister art, which infused a natural harmony into mind and literature; but neither of these sciences gave any promise of doing what we want. EOS 'very true.' EOS including the art of war? EOS 'yes, certainly.' EOS then there is something ludicrous about palamedes in the tragedy, coming in and saying that he had invented number, and had counted the ranks and set them in order. EOS no man should be a soldier who cannot count, and indeed he is hardly to be called a man. EOS i will explain what i mean by the last expression:--things sensible are of two kinds; the one class invite or stimulate the mind, while in the other the mind acquiesces. EOS for example, suppose that i hold up to the eyes three fingers--a fore finger, a middle finger, a little finger--the sight equally recognizes all three fingers, but without number cannot further distinguish them. EOS or again, suppose two objects to be relatively great and small, these ideas of greatness and smallness are supplied not by the sense, but by the mind. EOS number replies that they are two and not one, and are to be distinguished from one another. EOS the idea of unity, for example, like that of a finger, does not arouse thought unless involving some conception of plurality; but when the one is also the opposite of one, the contradiction gives rise to reflection; an example of this is afforded by any object of sight. EOS all number has also an elevating effect; it raises the mind out of the foam and flux of generation to the contemplation of being, having lesser military and retail uses also. EOS and to our higher purpose no science can be better adapted; but it must be pursued in the spirit of a philosopher, not of a shopkeeper. EOS when you divide, he insists that you are only multiplying; his 'one' is not material or resolvable into fractions, but an unvarying and absolute equality; and this proves the purely intellectual character of his study. EOS note also the great power which arithmetic has of sharpening the wits; no other discipline is equally severe, or an equal test of general ability, or equally improving to a stupid person. EOS let our second branch of education be geometry. EOS 'i can easily see,' replied glaucon, 'that the skill of the general will be doubled by his knowledge of geometry.' EOS that is a small matter; the use of geometry, to which i refer, is the assistance given by it in the contemplation of the idea of good, and the compelling the mind to look at true being, and not at generation only. EOS yet the present mode of pursuing these studies, as any one who is the least of a mathematician is aware, is mean and ridiculous; they are made to look downwards to the arts, and not upwards to eternal existence. EOS the geometer is always talking of squaring, subtending, apposing, as if he had in view action; whereas knowledge is the real object of the study. EOS it should elevate the soul, and create the mind of philosophy; it should raise up what has fallen down, not to speak of lesser uses in war and military tactics, and in the improvement of the faculties. EOS and there is a difficulty in proving to mankind that education is not only useful information but a purification of the eye of the soul, which is better than the bodily eye, for by this alone is truth seen. EOS now, will you appeal to mankind in general or to the philosopher? EOS or would you prefer to look to yourself only? EOS but solid geometry is not popular and has not the patronage of the state, nor is the use of it fully recognized; the difficulty is great, and the votaries of the study are conceited and impatient. EOS 'very true,' replied glaucon; 'but do i understand you now to begin with plane geometry, and to place next geometry of solids, and thirdly, astronomy, or the motion of solids?' EOS yes, i said; my hastiness has only hindered us. EOS 'very good, and now let us proceed to astronomy, about which i am willing to speak in your lofty strain. EOS no one can fail to see that the contemplation of the heavens draws the soul upwards.' EOS i am an exception, then; astronomy as studied at present appears to me to draw the soul not upwards, but downwards. EOS their beauty is like the beauty of figures drawn by the hand of daedalus or any other great artist, which may be used for illustration, but no mathematician would seek to obtain from them true conceptions of equality or numerical relations. EOS how ridiculous then to look for these in the map of the heavens, in which the imperfection of matter comes in everywhere as a disturbing element, marring the symmetry of day and night, of months and years, of the sun and stars in their courses. EOS only by problems can we place astronomy on a truly scientific basis. EOS let the heavens alone, and exert the intellect. EOS still, mathematics admit of other applications, as the pythagoreans say, and we agree. EOS there is a sister science of harmonical motion, adapted to the ear as astronomy is to the eye, and there may be other applications also. EOS let us inquire of the pythagoreans about them, not forgetting that we have an aim higher than theirs, which is the relation of these sciences to the idea of good. EOS the error which pervades astronomy also pervades harmonics. EOS yes, i said; but you mean the empirics who are always twisting and torturing the strings of the lyre, and quarrelling about the tempers of the strings; i am referring rather to the pythagorean harmonists, who are almost equally in error. EOS for they investigate only the numbers of the consonances which are heard, and ascend no higher,--of the true numerical harmony which is unheard, and is only to be found in problems, they have not even a conception. EOS 'that last,' he said, 'must be a marvellous thing.' EOS 'i dare say, socrates,' said glaucon; 'but such a study will be an endless business.' EOS for all these things are only the prelude, and you surely do not suppose that a mere mathematician is also a dialectician? EOS i have hardly ever known a mathematician who could reason.' EOS and the royal road out of the cave into the light, and the blinking of the eyes at the sun and turning to contemplate the shadows of reality, not the shadows of an image only--this progress and gradual acquisition of a new faculty of sight by the help of the mathematical sciences, is the elevation of the soul to the contemplation of the highest ideal of being. EOS 'so far, i agree with you. EOS but now, leaving the prelude, let us proceed to the hymn. EOS what, then, is the nature of dialectic, and what are the paths which lead thither?' EOS but that there is a science of absolute truth, which is attained in some way very different from those now practised, i am confident. EOS and so we get four names--two for intellect, and two for opinion,--reason or mind, understanding, faith, perception of shadows--which make a proportion-- being:becoming::intellect:opinion--and science:belief::understanding: perception of shadows. EOS to him who is not a dialectician life is but a sleepy dream; and many a man is in his grave before his is well waked up. EOS and would you have the future rulers of your ideal state intelligent beings, or stupid as posts? EOS then you must train them in dialectic, which will teach them to ask and answer questions, and is the coping-stone of the sciences. EOS forgive my enthusiasm; i am becoming excited; but when i see her trampled underfoot, i am angry at the authors of her disgrace. EOS 'i did not notice that you were more excited than you ought to have been.' EOS but i felt that i was. EOS now do not let us forget another point in the selection of our disciples--that they must be young and not old. EOS for solon is mistaken in saying that an old man can be always learning; youth is the time of study, and here we must remember that the mind is free and dainty, and, unlike the body, must not be made to work against the grain. EOS learning should be at first a sort of play, in which the natural bent is detected. EOS as in training them for war, the young dogs should at first only taste blood; but when the necessary gymnastics are over which during two or three years divide life between sleep and bodily exercise, then the education of the soul will become a more serious matter. EOS at twenty years of age, a selection must be made of the more promising disciples, with whom a new epoch of education will begin. EOS the sciences which they have hitherto learned in fragments will now be brought into relation with each other and with true being; for the power of combining them is the test of speculative and dialectical ability. EOS and afterwards at thirty a further selection shall be made of those who are able to withdraw from the world of sense into the abstraction of ideas. EOS but at this point, judging from present experience, there is a danger that dialectic may be the source of many evils. EOS he has hitherto honoured his reputed parents and disregarded the flatterers, and now he does the reverse. EOS there are certain doctrines which he learnt at home and which exercised a parental authority over him. EOS presently he finds that imputations are cast upon them; a troublesome querist comes and asks, 'what is the just and good?' EOS or proves that virtue is vice and vice virtue, and his mind becomes unsettled, and he ceases to love, honour, and obey them as he has hitherto done. EOS for a young man is a sort of puppy who only plays with an argument; and is reasoned into and out of his opinions every day; he soon begins to believe nothing, and brings himself and philosophy into discredit. EOS at fifty let him return to the end of all things, and have his eyes uplifted to the idea of good, and order his life after that pattern; if necessary, taking his turn at the helm of state, and training up others to be his successors. EOS 'you are a statuary, socrates, and have made a perfect image of our governors.' EOS 'and how will they begin their work?' EOS their first act will be to send away into the country all those who are more than ten years of age, and to proceed with those who are left...  at the commencement of the sixth book, plato anticipated his explanation of the relation of the philosopher to the world in an allegory, in this, as in other passages, following the order which he prescribes in education, and proceeding from the concrete to the abstract. EOS the shadows, the images, the reflection of the sun and stars in the water, the stars and sun themselves, severally correspond,--the first, to the realm of fancy and poetry,--the second, to the world of sense,--the third, to the abstractions or universals of sense, of which the mathematical sciences furnish the type,--the fourth and last to the same abstractions, when seen in the unity of the idea, from which they derive a new meaning and power. EOS to the divisions of knowledge the stages of education partly answer:--first, there is the early education of childhood and youth in the fancies of the poets, and in the laws and customs of the state;--then there is the training of the body to be a warrior athlete, and a good servant of the mind;--and thirdly, after an interval follows the education of later life, which begins with mathematics and proceeds to philosophy in general. EOS there seem to be two great aims in the philosophy of plato,--first, to realize abstractions; secondly, to connect them. EOS according to him, the true education is that which draws men from becoming to being, and to a comprehensive survey of all being. EOS he never understands that abstractions, as hegel says, are 'mere abstractions'--of use when employed in the arrangement of facts, but adding nothing to the sum of knowledge when pursued apart from them, or with reference to an imaginary idea of good. EOS still the exercise of the faculty of abstraction apart from facts has enlarged the mind, and played a great part in the education of the human race. EOS all things in which there is opposition or proportion are suggestive of reflection. EOS the follow in order the other sciences of plain and solid geometry, and of solids in motion, one branch of which is astronomy or the harmony of the spheres,--to this is appended the sister science of the harmony of sounds. EOS plato seems also to hint at the possibility of other applications of arithmetical or mathematical proportions, such as we employ in chemistry and natural philosophy, such as the pythagoreans and even aristotle make use of in ethics and politics, e.g. EOS he will not be disinclined to say with him:--let alone the heavens, and study the beauties of number and figure in themselves. EOS he too will be apt to depreciate their application to the arts. EOS he will remark with interest on the backward state of solid geometry, which, alas! EOS was not encouraged by the aid of the state in the age of plato; and he will recognize the grasp of plato's mind in his ability to conceive of one science of solids in motion including the earth as well as the heavens,--not forgetting to notice the intimation to which allusion has been already made, that besides astronomy and harmonics the science of solids in motion may have other applications. EOS the illusion was a natural one in that age and country. EOS the simplicity and certainty of astronomy and harmonics seemed to contrast with the variation and complexity of the world of sense; hence the circumstance that there was some elementary basis of fact, some measurement of distance or time or vibrations on which they must ultimately rest, was overlooked by him. EOS the modern predecessors of newton fell into errors equally great; and plato can hardly be said to have been very far wrong, or may even claim a sort of prophetic insight into the subject, when we consider that the greater part of astronomy at the present day consists of abstract dynamics, by the help of which most astronomical discoveries have been made. EOS the metaphysical philosopher from his point of view recognizes mathematics as an instrument of education,--which strengthens the power of attention, developes the sense of order and the faculty of construction, and enables the mind to grasp under simple formulae the quantitative differences of physical phenomena. EOS in the attempt which plato makes to connect them, we easily trace the influences of ancient pythagorean notions. EOS the truth and certainty of numbers, when thus disengaged from phenomena, gave them a kind of sacredness in the eyes of an ancient philosopher. EOS nor is it easy to say how far ideas of order and fixedness may have had a moral and elevating influence on the minds of men, 'who,' in the words of the timaeus, 'might learn to regulate their erring lives according to them.' EOS and those who in modern times see the world pervaded by universal law, may also see an anticipation of this last word of modern philosophy in the platonic idea of good, which is the source and measure of all things, and yet only an abstraction (philebus). EOS the difficulty in this passage may be explained, like many others, from differences in the modes of conception prevailing among ancient and modern thinkers. EOS whereas to plato sense is the heraclitean flux of sense, not the vision of objects in the order in which they actually present themselves to the experienced sight, but as they may be imagined to appear confused and blurred to the half-awakened eye of the infant. EOS hence arises the question, 'what is great, what is small?' EOS and thus begins the distinction of the visible and the intelligible. EOS the second difficulty relates to plato's conception of harmonics. EOS both of these fall short in different degrees of the platonic idea of harmony, which must be studied in a purely abstract way, first by the method of problems, and secondly as a part of universal knowledge in relation to the idea of good. EOS the allegory has a political as well as a philosophical meaning. EOS in other words, their principles are too wide for practical application; they are looking far away into the past and future, when their business is with the present. EOS the ideal is not easily reduced to the conditions of actual life, and may often be at variance with them. EOS and at first, those who return are unable to compete with the inhabitants of the den in the measurement of the shadows, and are derided and persecuted by them; but after a while they see the things below in far truer proportions than those who have never ascended into the upper world. EOS the difference between the politician turned into a philosopher and the philosopher turned into a politician, is symbolized by the two kinds of disordered eyesight, the one which is experienced by the captive who is transferred from darkness to day, the other, of the heavenly messenger who voluntarily for the good of his fellow-men descends into the den. EOS like the nature and divisions of dialectic, of which glaucon impatiently demands to be informed, perhaps he would have said that the explanation could not be given except to a disciple of the previous sciences. EOS many illustrations of this part of the republic may be found in modern politics and in daily life. EOS for among ourselves, too, there have been two sorts of politicians or statesmen, whose eyesight has become disordered in two different ways. EOS mill or burke himself, have been theorists or philosophers before they were politicians, or who, having been students of history, have allowed some great historical parallel, such as the english revolution of 1688, or possibly athenian democracy or roman imperialism, to be the medium through which they viewed contemporary events. EOS the church of the future, the commonwealth of the future, the society of the future, have so absorbed their minds, that they are unable to see in their true proportions the politics of to-day. EOS they have been intoxicated with great ideas, such as liberty, or equality, or the greatest happiness of the greatest number, or the brotherhood of humanity, and they no longer care to consider how these ideas must be limited in practice or harmonized with the conditions of human life. EOS almost every one has known some enthusiastic half-educated person, who sees everything at false distances, and in erroneous proportions. EOS suppose them to be sent into a larger world, to undertake some higher calling, from being tradesmen to turn generals or politicians, from being schoolmasters to become philosophers:--or imagine them on a sudden to receive an inward light which reveals to them for the first time in their lives a higher idea of god and the existence of a spiritual world, by this sudden conversion or change is not their daily life likely to be upset; and on the other hand will not many of their old prejudices and narrownesses still adhere to them long after they have begun to take a more comprehensive view of human things? EOS from familiar examples like these we may learn what plato meant by the eyesight which is liable to two kinds of disorders. EOS nor have we any difficulty in drawing a parallel between the young athenian in the fifth century before christ who became unsettled by new ideas, and the student of a modern university who has been the subject of a similar 'aufklarung.' EOS we too observe that when young men begin to criticise customary beliefs, or to analyse the constitution of human nature, they are apt to lose hold of solid principle (greek). EOS they are like trees which have been frequently transplanted. EOS the earth about them is loose, and they have no roots reaching far into the soil. EOS they catch opinions, as diseases are caught--when they are in the air. EOS borne hither and thither, 'they speedily fall into beliefs' the opposite of those in which they were brought up. EOS they hardly retain the distinction of right and wrong; they seem to think one thing as good as another. EOS like the youth in the philebus, they are ready to discourse to any one about a new philosophy. EOS they are generally the disciples of some eminent professor or sophist, whom they rather imitate than understand. EOS they may be counted happy if in later years they retain some of the simple truths which they acquired in early education, and which they may, perhaps, find to be worth all the rest. EOS such is the picture which plato draws and which we only reproduce, partly in his own words, of the dangers which beset youth in times of transition, when old opinions are fading away and the new are not yet firmly established. EOS their condition is ingeniously compared by him to that of a supposititious son, who has made the discovery that his reputed parents are not his real ones, and, in consequence, they have lost their authority over him. EOS the distinction between the mathematician and the dialectician is also noticeable. EOS the contempt which he expresses for distinctions of words, the danger of involuntary falsehood, the apology which socrates makes for his earnestness of speech, are highly characteristic of the platonic style and mode of thought. EOS the quaint notion that if palamedes was the inventor of number agamemnon could not have counted his feet; the art by which we are made to believe that this state of ours is not a dream only; the gravity with which the first step is taken in the actual creation of the state, namely, the sending out of the city all who had arrived at ten years of age, in order to expedite the business of education by a generation, are also truly platonic. EOS book viii. EOS and so we have arrived at the conclusion, that in the perfect state wives and children are to be in common; and the education and pursuits of men and women, both in war and peace, are to be common, and kings are to be philosophers and warriors, and the soldiers of the state are to live together, having all things in common; and they are to be warrior athletes, receiving no pay but only their food, from the other citizens. EOS now let us return to the point at which we digressed. EOS 'that is easily done,' he replied: 'you were speaking of the state which you had constructed, and of the individual who answered to this, both of whom you affirmed to be good; and you said that of inferior states there were four forms and four individuals corresponding to them, which although deficient in various degrees, were all of them worth inspecting with a view to determining the relative happiness or misery of the best or worst man. EOS suppose that we put ourselves again in the same position, and do you repeat your question. EOS now, states are not made of 'oak and rock,' but of flesh and blood; and therefore as there are five states there must be five human natures in individuals, which correspond to them. EOS and first, there is the ambitious nature, which answers to the lacedaemonian state; secondly, the oligarchical nature; thirdly, the democratical; and fourthly, the tyrannical. EOS plainly, like all changes of government, from division in the rulers. EOS but whence came division? EOS 'sing, heavenly muses,' as homer says;--let them condescend to answer us, as if we were children, to whom they put on a solemn face in jest. EOS 'and what will they say?' EOS they will say that human things are fated to decay, and even the perfect state will not escape from this law of destiny, when 'the wheel comes full circle' in a period short or long. EOS plants or animals have times of fertility and sterility, which the intelligence of rulers because alloyed by sense will not enable them to ascertain, and children will be born out of season. EOS when this law is neglected marriages will be unpropitious; the inferior offspring who are then born will in time become the rulers; the state will decline, and education fall into decay; gymnastic will be preferred to music, and the gold and silver and brass and iron will form a chaotic mass--thus division will arise. EOS such is the muses' answer to our question. EOS 'and a true answer, of course:--but what more have they to say?' EOS thus arises timocracy, which is intermediate between aristocracy and oligarchy. EOS the new form of government resembles the ideal in obedience to rulers and contempt for trade, and having common meals, and in devotion to warlike and gymnastic exercises. EOS but corruption has crept into philosophy, and simplicity of character, which was once her note, is now looked for only in the military class. EOS his origin is as follows:--his father is a good man dwelling in an ill-ordered state, who has retired from politics in order that he may lead a quiet life. EOS his mother is angry at her loss of precedence among other women; she is disgusted at her husband's selfishness, and she expatiates to her son on the unmanliness and indolence of his father. EOS the old family servant takes up the tale, and says to the youth:--'when you grow up you must be more of a man than your father.' EOS all the world are agreed that he who minds his own business is an idiot, while a busybody is highly honoured and esteemed. EOS the young man compares this spirit with his father's words and ways, and as he is naturally well disposed, although he has suffered from evil influences, he rests at a middle point and becomes ambitious and a lover of honour. EOS and now let us set another city over against another man. EOS the decline begins with the possession of gold and silver; illegal modes of expenditure are invented; one draws another on, and the multitude are infected; riches outweigh virtue; lovers of money take the place of lovers of honour; misers of politicians; and, in time, political privileges are confined by law to the rich, who do not shrink from violence in order to effect their purposes. EOS would a man who wanted to be safe on a voyage take a bad pilot because he was rich, or refuse a good one because he was poor? EOS and does not the analogy apply still more to the state? EOS and there are yet greater evils: two nations are struggling together in one--the rich and the poor; and the rich dare not put arms into the hands of the poor, and are unwilling to pay for defenders out of their own money. EOS and have we not already condemned that state in which the same persons are warriors as well as shopkeepers? EOS but observe that these destitutes had not really any more of the governing nature in them when they were rich than now that they are poor; they were miserable spendthrifts always. EOS and this evil state of society originates in bad education and bad government. EOS if he is the trustee of an orphan, and has the power to defraud, he will soon prove that he is not without the will, and that his passions are only restrained by fear and not by reason. EOS hence he leads a divided existence; in which the better desires mostly prevail. EOS but when he is contending for prizes and other distinctions, he is afraid to incur a loss which is to be repaid only by barren honour; in time of war he fights with a small part of his resources, and usually keeps his money and loses the victory. EOS next comes democracy and the democratic man, out of oligarchy and the oligarchical man. EOS insatiable avarice is the ruling passion of an oligarchy; and they encourage expensive habits in order that they may gain by the ruin of extravagant youth. EOS the usurer with stooping walk pretends not to see them; he passes by, and leaves his sting--that is, his money--in some other victim; and many a man has to pay the parent or principal sum multiplied into a family of children, and is reduced into a state of dronage by him. EOS the only way of diminishing the evil is either to limit a man in his use of his property, or to insist that he shall lend at his own risk. EOS but the ruling class do not want remedies; they care only for money, and are as careless of virtue as the poorest of the citizens. EOS the sturdy pauper finds that in the hour of danger he is not despised; he sees the rich man puffing and panting, and draws the conclusion which he privately imparts to his companions,--'that our people are not good for much;' and as a sickly frame is made ill by a mere touch from without, or sometimes without external impulse is ready to fall to pieces of itself, so from the least cause, or with none at all, the city falls ill and fights a battle for life or death. EOS and democracy comes into power when the poor are the victors, killing some and exiling some, and giving equal shares in the government to all the rest. EOS the manner of life in such a state is that of democrats; there is freedom and plainness of speech, and every man does what is right in his own eyes, and has his own way of life. EOS hence arise the most various developments of character; the state is like a piece of embroidery of which the colours and figures are the manners of men, and there are many who, like women and children, prefer this variety to real beauty and excellence. EOS the state is not one but many, like a bazaar at which you can buy anything. EOS when you condemn men to death they remain alive all the same; a gentleman is desired to go into exile, and he stalks about the streets like a hero; and nobody sees him or cares for him. EOS observe, too, how grandly democracy sets her foot upon all our fine theories of education,--how little she cares for the training of her statesmen! EOS the only qualification which she demands is the profession of patriotism. EOS such is democracy;--a pleasing, lawless, various sort of government, distributing equality to equals and unequals alike. EOS let us now inspect the individual democrat; and first, as in the case of the state, we will trace his antecedents. EOS perhaps i ought to explain this latter term:--necessary pleasures are those which are good, and which we cannot do without; unnecessary pleasures are those which do no good, and of which the desire might be eradicated by early training. EOS and the drone, as we called him, is the slave of these unnecessary pleasures and desires, whereas the miserly oligarch is subject only to the necessary. EOS the oligarch changes into the democrat in the following manner:--the youth who has had a miserly bringing up, gets a taste of the drone's honey; he meets with wild companions, who introduce him to every new pleasure. EOS as in the state, so in the individual, there are allies on both sides, temptations from without and passions from within; there is reason also and external influences of parents and friends in alliance with the oligarchical principle; and the two factions are in violent conflict with one another. EOS sometimes the party of order prevails, but then again new desires and new disorders arise, and the whole mob of passions gets possession of the acropolis, that is to say, the soul, which they find void and unguarded by true words and works. EOS and if any offer of alliance or parley of individual elders comes from home, the false spirits shut the gates of the castle and permit no one to enter,--there is a battle, and they gain the victory; and straightway making alliance with the desires, they banish modesty, which they call folly, and send temperance over the border. EOS when the house has been swept and garnished, they dress up the exiled vices, and, crowning them with garlands, bring them back under new names. EOS insolence they call good breeding, anarchy freedom, waste magnificence, impudence courage. EOS after a while he divides his time impartially between them; and perhaps, when he gets older and the violence of passion has abated, he restores some of the exiles and lives in a sort of equilibrium, indulging first one pleasure and then another; and if reason comes and tells him that some pleasures are good and honourable, and others bad and vile, he shakes his head and says that he can make no distinction between them. EOS thus he lives in the fancy of the hour; sometimes he takes to drink, and then he turns abstainer; he practises in the gymnasium or he does nothing at all; then again he would be a philosopher or a politician; or again, he would be a warrior or a man of business; he is     'every thing by starts and nothing long.' EOS tyranny springs from democracy much as democracy springs from oligarchy. EOS both arise from excess; the one from excess of wealth, the other from excess of freedom. EOS 'the great natural good of life,' says the democrat, 'is freedom.' EOS and this exclusive love of freedom and regardlessness of everything else, is the cause of the change from democracy to tyranny. EOS father and son, citizen and foreigner, teacher and pupil, old and young, are all on a level; fathers and teachers fear their sons and pupils, and the wisdom of the young man is a match for the elder, and the old imitate the jaunty manners of the young because they are afraid of being thought morose. EOS nay, the very animals in a democratic state have a freedom which is unknown in other places. EOS the she-dogs are as good as their she-mistresses, and horses and asses march along with dignity and run their noses against anybody who comes in their way. EOS 'that has often been my experience.' EOS such is the glorious beginning of things out of which tyranny springs. EOS 'glorious, indeed; but what is to follow?' EOS you will remember that in the oligarchy were found two classes--rogues and paupers, whom we compared to drones with and without stings. EOS now in a democracy, too, there are drones, but they are more numerous and more dangerous than in the oligarchy; there they are inert and unpractised, here they are full of life and animation; and the keener sort speak and act, while the others buzz about the bema and prevent their opponents from being heard. EOS their victims attempt to resist; they are driven mad by the stings of the drones, and so become downright oligarchs in self-defence. EOS the nature of the change is indicated in the old fable of the temple of zeus lycaeus, which tells how he who tastes human flesh mixed up with the flesh of other victims will turn into a wolf. EOS perhaps he is driven out, but he soon comes back from exile; and then if his enemies cannot get rid of him by lawful means, they plot his assassination. EOS thereupon the friend of the people makes his well-known request to them for a body-guard, which they readily grant, thinking only of his danger and not of their own. EOS and the great protector, having crushed all his rivals, stands proudly erect in the chariot of state, a full-blown tyrant: let us enquire into the nature of his happiness. EOS having got rid of foreign enemies, he makes himself necessary to the state by always going to war. EOS he is thus enabled to depress the poor by heavy taxes, and so keep them at work; and he can get rid of bolder spirits by handing them over to the enemy. EOS then comes unpopularity; some of his old associates have the courage to oppose him. EOS the consequence is, that he has to make a purgation of the state; but, unlike the physician who purges away the bad, he must get rid of the high-spirited, the wise and the wealthy; for he has no choice between death and a life of shame and dishonour. EOS and the more hated he is, the more he will require trusty guards; but how will he obtain them? EOS 'they will come flocking like birds--for pay.' EOS will he not rather obtain them on the spot? EOS he will take the slaves from their owners and make them his body-guard; these are his trusted friends, who admire and look up to him. EOS are not the tragic poets wise who magnify and exalt the tyrant, and say that he is wise by association with the wise? EOS and are not their praises of tyranny alone a sufficient reason why we should exclude them from our state? EOS they may go to other cities, and gather the mob about them with fine words, and change commonwealths into tyrannies and democracies, receiving honours and rewards for their services; but the higher they and their friends ascend constitution hill, the more their honour will fail and become 'too asthmatic to mount.' EOS to return to the tyrant--how will he support that rare army of his? EOS first, by robbing the temples of their treasures, which will enable him to lighten the taxes; then he will take all his father's property, and spend it on his companions, male or female. EOS 'then he is a parricide and a cruel, unnatural son.' EOS thus liberty, when out of all order and reason, passes into the worst form of servitude...  in the previous books plato has described the ideal state; now he returns to the perverted or declining forms, on which he had lightly touched at the end of book iv. EOS these he describes in a succession of parallels between the individuals and the states, tracing the origin of either in the state or individual which has preceded them. EOS he begins by asking the point at which he digressed; and is thus led shortly to recapitulate the substance of the three former books, which also contain a parallel of the philosopher and the state. EOS of the first decline he gives no intelligible account; he would not have liked to admit the most probable causes of the fall of his ideal state, which to us would appear to be the impracticability of communism or the natural antagonism of the ruling and subject classes. EOS he throws a veil of mystery over the origin of the decline, which he attributes to ignorance of the law of population. EOS like the ancients in general, he had no idea of the gradual perfectibility of man or of the education of the human race. EOS when good laws had been given, he thought only of the manner in which they were likely to be corrupted, or of how they might be filled up in detail or restored in accordance with their original spirit. EOS he appears not to have reflected upon the full meaning of his own words, 'in the brief space of human life, nothing great can be accomplished'; or again, as he afterwards says in the laws, 'infinite time is the maker of cities.' EOS the order of constitutions which is adopted by him represents an order of thought rather than a succession of time, and may be considered as the first attempt to frame a philosophy of history. EOS the first of these declining states is timocracy, or the government of soldiers and lovers of honour, which answers to the spartan state; this is a government of force, in which education is not inspired by the muses, but imposed by the law, and in which all the finer elements of organization have disappeared. EOS the individual who answers to timocracy has some noticeable qualities. EOS he is described as ill educated, but, like the spartan, a lover of literature; and although he is a harsh master to his servants he has no natural superiority over them. EOS his character is based upon a reaction against the circumstances of his father, who in a troubled city has retired from politics; and his mother, who is dissatisfied at her own position, is always urging him towards the life of political ambition. EOS such a character may have had this origin, and indeed livy attributes the licinian laws to a feminine jealousy of a similar kind. EOS but there is obviously no connection between the manner in which the timocratic state springs out of the ideal, and the mere accident by which the timocratic man is the son of a retired statesman. EOS the two next stages in the decline of constitutions have even less historical foundation. EOS the order of history appears to be different; first, in the homeric times there is the royal or patriarchal form of government, which a century or two later was succeeded by an oligarchy of birth rather than of wealth, and in which wealth was only the accident of the hereditary possession of land and power. EOS sometimes this oligarchical government gave way to a government based upon a qualification of property, which, according to aristotle's mode of using words, would have been called a timocracy; and this in some cities, as at athens, became the conducting medium to democracy. EOS but such was not the necessary order of succession in states; nor, indeed, can any order be discerned in the endless fluctuation of greek history (like the tides in the euripus), except, perhaps, in the almost uniform tendency from monarchy to aristocracy in the earliest times. EOS at first sight there appears to be a similar inversion in the last step of the platonic succession; for tyranny, instead of being the natural end of democracy, in early greek history appears rather as a stage leading to democracy; the reign of peisistratus and his sons is an episode which comes between the legislation of solon and the constitution of cleisthenes; and some secret cause common to them all seems to have led the greater part of hellas at her first appearance in the dawn of history, e.g. EOS athens, argos, corinth, sicyon, and nearly every state with the exception of sparta, through a similar stage of tyranny which ended either in oligarchy or democracy. EOS the portrait of the tyrant himself is just such as the later greek delighted to draw of phalaris and dionysius, in which, as in the lives of mediaeval saints or mythic heroes, the conduct and actions of one were attributed to another in order to fill up the outline. EOS there was no enormity which the greek was not today to believe of them; the tyrant was the negation of government and law; his assassination was glorious; there was no crime, however unnatural, which might not with probability be attributed to him. EOS in this, plato was only following the common thought of his countrymen, which he embellished and exaggerated with all the power of his genius. EOS there is no need to suppose that he drew from life; or that his knowledge of tyrants is derived from a personal acquaintance with dionysius. EOS the manner in which he speaks of them would rather tend to render doubtful his ever having 'consorted' with them, or entertained the schemes, which are attributed to him in the epistles, of regenerating sicily by their help. EOS plato in a hyperbolical and serio-comic vein exaggerates the follies of democracy which he also sees reflected in social life. EOS of a people animated by a common spirit of liberty, rising as one man to repel the persian host, which is the leading idea of democracy in herodotus and thucydides, he never seems to think. EOS this ideal of wickedness living in helpless misery, is the reverse of that other portrait of perfect injustice ruling in happiness and splendour, which first of all thrasymachus, and afterwards the sons of ariston had drawn, and is also the reverse of the king whose rule of life is the good of his subjects. EOS each of these governments and individuals has a corresponding ethical gradation: the ideal state is under the rule of reason, not extinguishing but harmonizing the passions, and training them in virtue; in the timocracy and the timocratic man the constitution, whether of the state or of the individual, is based, first, upon courage, and secondly, upon the love of honour; this latter virtue, which is hardly to be esteemed a virtue, has superseded all the rest. EOS in the second stage of decline the virtues have altogether disappeared, and the love of gain has succeeded to them; in the third stage, or democracy, the various passions are allowed to have free play, and the virtues and vices are impartially cultivated. EOS but this freedom, which leads to many curious extravagances of character, is in reality only a state of weakness and dissipation. EOS in all of them excess--the excess first of wealth and then of freedom, is the element of decay. EOS the eighth book of the republic abounds in pictures of life and fanciful allusions; the use of metaphorical language is carried to a greater extent than anywhere else in plato. EOS we may remark,  (1), the description of the two nations in one, which become more and more divided in the greek republics, as in feudal times, and perhaps also in our own;  (2), the notion of democracy expressed in a sort of pythagorean formula as equality among unequals;  (3), the free and easy ways of men and animals, which are characteristic of liberty, as foreign mercenaries and universal mistrust are of the tyrant;  (4), the proposal that mere debts should not be recoverable by law is a speculation which has often been entertained by reformers of the law in modern times, and is in harmony with the tendencies of modern legislation. EOS the hit about the tyrant being a parricide; the representation of the tyrant's life as an obscene dream; the rhetorical surprise of a more miserable than the most miserable of men in book ix; the hint to the poets that if they are the friends of tyrants there is no place for them in a constitutional state, and that they are too clever not to see the propriety of their own expulsion; the continuous image of the drones who are of two kinds, swelling at last into the monster drone having wings (book ix),--are among plato's happiest touches. EOS there remains to be considered the great difficulty of this book of the republic, the so-called number of the state. EOS ad att.). EOS and some have imagined that there is no answer to the puzzle, and that plato has been practising upon his readers. EOS as little reason is there for supposing that plato intentionally used obscure expressions; the obscurity arises from our want of familiarity with the subject. EOS on the other hand, plato himself indicates that he is not altogether serious, and in describing his number as a solemn jest of the muses, he appears to imply some degree of satire on the symbolical use of number. EOS (compare cratylus; protag.) EOS another help is the allusion in aristotle, who makes the important remark that the latter part of the passage (greek) describes a solid figure. EOS (pol.--'he only says that nothing is abiding, but that all things change in a certain cycle; and that the origin of the change is a base of numbers which are in the ratio of 4:3; and this when combined with a figure of five gives two harmonies; he means when the number of this figure becomes solid.') EOS some further clue may be gathered from the appearance of the pythagorean triangle, which is denoted by the numbers 3, 4, 5, and in which, as in every right-angled triangle, the squares of the two lesser sides equal the square of the hypotenuse (9 + 16 = 25). EOS plato begins by speaking of a perfect or cyclical number (tim. EOS ), i.e. EOS a number in which the sum of the divisors equals the whole; this is the divine or perfect number in which all lesser cycles or revolutions are complete. EOS the second is the number of generations or births, and presides over them in the same mysterious manner in which the stars preside over them, or in which, according to the pythagoreans, opportunity, justice, marriage, are represented by some number or figure. EOS the lesser or square 'harmony,' of 400, might be a symbol of the guardians,--the larger or oblong 'harmony,' of the people, and the numbers 3, 4, 5 might refer respectively to the three orders in the state or parts of the soul, the four virtues, the five forms of government. EOS the harmony of the musical scale, which is elsewhere used as a symbol of the harmony of the state, is also indicated. EOS for the numbers 3, 4, 5, which represent the sides of the pythagorean triangle, also denote the intervals of the scale. EOS the terms used in the statement of the problem may be explained as follows. EOS a perfect number (greek), as already stated, is one which is equal to the sum of its divisors. EOS (greek) is the 'base' on which the whole calculation depends, or the 'lowest term' from which it can be worked out. EOS numbers are called 'like and unlike' (greek) when the factors or the sides of the planes and cubes which they represent are or are not in the same ratio: e.g. EOS 'waxing' (greek) numbers, called also 'increasing' (greek), are those which are exceeded by the sum of their divisors: e.g. EOS 'waning' (greek) numbers, called also 'decreasing' (greek) are those which succeed the sum of their divisors: e.g. EOS they are equivalent to 'expressible in terms having the same relation to one another,' like the series 8, 12, 18, 27, each of which numbers is in the relation of (1 and 1/2) to the preceding. EOS the 'base,' or 'fundamental number, which has 1/3 added to it' (1 and 1/3) = 4/3 or a musical fourth. EOS (greek) is a 'proportion' of numbers as of musical notes, applied either to the parts or factors of a single number or to the relation of one number to another. EOS a number representing a figure of which the opposite sides only are equal. EOS omitting fractions, (greek), 'irrational,' i.e. EOS including fractions; e.g. EOS 49 is a square of the rational diameter of a figure the side of which = 5: 50, of an irrational diameter of the same. EOS for several of the explanations here given and for a good deal besides i am indebted to an excellent article on the platonic number by dr. donaldson (proc. EOS of the philol. EOS society). EOS having assumed that the number of the perfect or divine cycle is the number of the world, and the number of the imperfect cycle the number of the state, he proceeds: 'the period of the world is defined by the perfect number 6, that of the state by the cube of that number or 216, which is the product of the last pair of terms in the platonic tetractys (a series of seven terms, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 8, 27); and if we take this as the basis of our computation, we shall have two cube numbers (greek), viz. EOS 8 and 27; and the mean proportionals between these, viz. EOS 12 and 18, will furnish three intervals and four terms, and these terms and intervals stand related to one another in the sesqui-altera ratio, i.e. EOS and if we combine the ratio 4/3 with the number 5, or multiply the ratios of the sides by the hypotenuse, we shall by first squaring and then cubing obtain two expressions, which denote the ratio of the two last pairs of terms in the platonic tetractys, the former multiplied by the square, the latter by the cube of the number 10, the sum of the first four digits which constitute the platonic tetractys.' EOS the two (greek) he elsewhere explains as follows: 'the first (greek) is (greek), in other words (4/3 x 5) all squared = 100 x 2 squared over 3 squared. EOS the second (greek), a cube of the same root, is described as 100 multiplied (alpha) by the rational diameter of 5 diminished by unity, i.e., as shown above, 48: (beta) by two incommensurable diameters, i.e. EOS the two first irrationals, or 2 and 3: and (gamma) by the cube of 3, or 27. thus we have (48 + 5 + 27) 100 = 1000 x 2 cubed. EOS the reasons which have inclined me to agree with dr. donaldson and also with schleiermacher in supposing that 216 is the platonic number of births are: (1) that it coincides with the description of the number given in the first part of the passage (greek...): (2) that the number 216 with its permutations would have been familiar to a greek mathematician, though unfamiliar to us: (3) that 216 is the cube of 6, and also the sum of 3 cubed, 4 cubed, 5 cubed, the numbers 3, 4, 5 representing the pythagorean triangle, of which the sides when squared equal the square of the hypotenuse (9 + 16 = 25): (4) that it is also the period of the pythagorean metempsychosis: (5) the three ultimate terms or bases (3, 4, 5) of which 216 is composed answer to the third, fourth, fifth in the musical scale: (6) that the number 216 is the product of the cubes of 2 and 3, which are the two last terms in the platonic tetractys: (7) that the pythagorean triangle is said by plutarch (de is. EOS et osir. EOS ), proclus (super prima eucl. EOS ), and quintilian (de musica) to be contained in this passage, so that the tradition of the school seems to point in the same direction: (8) that the pythagorean triangle is called also the figure of marriage (greek). EOS but though agreeing with dr. donaldson thus far, i see no reason for supposing, as he does, that the first or perfect number is the world, the human or imperfect number the state; nor has he given any proof that the second harmony is a cube. EOS in this somewhat forced manner plato introduces once more the numbers of the pythagorean triangle. EOS the first harmony of 400, as has been already remarked, probably represents the rulers; the second and oblong harmony of 7600, the people. EOS and here we take leave of the difficulty. EOS his general meaning is that divine creation is perfect, and is represented or presided over by a perfect or cyclical number; human generation is imperfect, and represented or presided over by an imperfect number or series of numbers. EOS the contrast of the perfect and imperfect number may have been easily suggested by the corrections of the cycle, which were made first by meton and secondly by callippus; (the latter is said to have been a pupil of plato). EOS of the degree of importance or of exactness to be attributed to the problem, the number of the tyrant in book ix (729 = 365 x 2), and the slight correction of the error in the number 5040/12 (laws), may furnish a criterion. EOS there is nothing surprising in the circumstance that those who were seeking for order in nature and had found order in number, should have imagined one to give law to the other. EOS plato believes in a power of number far beyond what he could see realized in the world around him, and he knows the great influence which 'the little matter of 1, 2, 3' exercises upon education. EOS he may even be thought to have a prophetic anticipation of the discoveries of quetelet and others, that numbers depend upon numbers; e.g.--in population, the numbers of births and the respective numbers of children born of either sex, on the respective ages of parents, i.e. EOS on other numbers. EOS there is, however, a previous question of the nature and number of the appetites, which i should like to consider first. EOS some of them are unlawful, and yet admit of being chastened and weakened in various degrees by the power of reason and law. EOS 'what appetites do you mean?' EOS i mean those which are awake when the reasoning powers are asleep, which get up and walk about naked without any self-respect or shame; and there is no conceivable folly or crime, however cruel or unnatural, of which, in imagination, they may not be guilty. EOS but when a man's pulse beats temperately; and he has supped on a feast of reason and come to a knowledge of himself before going to rest, and has satisfied his desires just enough to prevent their perturbing his reason, which remains clear and luminous, and when he is free from quarrel and heat,--the visions which he has on his bed are least irregular and abnormal. EOS the counsellors of evil find that their only chance of retaining him is to implant in his soul a monster drone, or love; while other desires buzz around him and mystify him with sweet sounds and scents, this monster love takes possession of him, and puts an end to every true or modest thought or wish. EOS 'nay, that you must tell me.' EOS 'i can only say, that i should not much like to be in their place.' EOS but, o heavens, adeimantus, to think that for some new-fangled and unnecessary love he will give up his old father and mother, best and dearest of friends, or enslave them to the fancies of the hour! EOS love overmasters the thoughts of his youth, and he becomes in sober reality the monster that he was sometimes in sleep. EOS he waxes strong in all violence and lawlessness; and is ready for any deed of daring that will supply the wants of his rabble-rout. EOS in a well-ordered state there are only a few such, and these in time of war go out and become the mercenaries of a tyrant. EOS 'no small catalogue of crimes truly, even if the perpetrators are few.' EOS if the people yield, well and good, but, if they resist, then, as before he beat his father and mother, so now he beats his fatherland and motherland, and places his mercenaries over them. EOS they realize our dream; and he who is the most of a tyrant by nature, and leads the life of a tyrant for the longest time, will be the worst of them, and being the worst of them, will also be the most miserable. EOS but which is the happier? EOS great and terrible as the tyrant may appear enthroned amid his satellites, let us not be afraid to go in and ask; and the answer is, that the monarchical is the happiest, and the tyrannical the most miserable of states. EOS and may we not ask the same question about the men themselves, requesting some one to look into them who is able to penetrate the inner nature of man, and will not be panic-struck by the vain pomp of tyranny? EOS i will suppose that he is one who has lived with him, and has seen him in family life, or perhaps in the hour of trouble and danger. EOS 'who is that?' EOS the tyrannical man who has the misfortune also to become a public tyrant. EOS 'there i suspect that you are right.' EOS say rather, 'i am sure;' conjecture is out of place in an enquiry of this nature. EOS you will say, 'the owners of slaves are not generally in any fear of them.' EOS because the whole city is in a league which protects the individual. EOS suppose however that one of these owners and his household is carried off by a god into a wilderness, where there are no freemen to help him--will he not be in an agony of terror?--will he not be compelled to flatter his slaves and to promise them many things sore against his will? EOS and suppose the same god who carried him off were to surround him with neighbours who declare that no man ought to have slaves, and that the owners of them should be punished with death. EOS 'still worse and worse! EOS he will be in the midst of his enemies.' EOS and so let us have a final trial and proclamation; need we hire a herald, or shall i proclaim the result? EOS 'made the proclamation yourself.' EOS the second is derived from the three kinds of pleasure, which answer to the three elements of the soul--reason, passion, desire; under which last is comprehended avarice as well as sensual appetite, while passion includes ambition, party-feeling, love of reputation. EOS reason, again, is solely directed to the attainment of truth, and careless of money and reputation. EOS in accordance with the difference of men's natures, one of these three principles is in the ascendant, and they have their several pleasures corresponding to them. EOS interrogate now the three natures, and each one will be found praising his own pleasures and depreciating those of others. EOS the money-maker will contrast the vanity of knowledge with the solid advantages of wealth. EOS is there any better criterion than experience and knowledge? EOS and which of the three has the truest knowledge and the widest experience? EOS the experience of youth makes the philosopher acquainted with the two kinds of desire, but the avaricious and the ambitious man never taste the pleasures of truth and wisdom. EOS and his instrument is reason, whereas their standard is only wealth and honour; and if by reason we are to judge, his good will be the truest. EOS he who has a right to judge judges thus. EOS twice has the just man overthrown the unjust--once more, as in an olympian contest, first offering up a prayer to the saviour zeus, let him try a fall. EOS a wise man whispers to me that the pleasures of the wise are true and pure; all others are a shadow only. EOS let us examine this: is not pleasure opposed to pain, and is there not a mean state which is neither? EOS when a man is sick, nothing is more pleasant to him than health. EOS but this he never found out while he was well. EOS in pain he desires only to cease from pain; on the other hand, when he is in an ecstasy of pleasure, rest is painful to him. EOS again, pleasure and pain are motions, and the absence of them is rest; but if so, how can the absence of either of them be the other? EOS thus we are led to infer that the contradiction is an appearance only, and witchery of the senses. EOS there is in nature an upper, lower, and middle region, and he who passes from the lower to the middle imagines that he is going up and is already in the upper world; and if he were taken back again would think, and truly think, that he was descending. EOS and a like confusion happens with pleasure and pain, and with many other things. EOS now which is the purer satisfaction--that of eating and drinking, or that of knowledge? EOS consider the matter thus: the satisfaction of that which has more existence is truer than of that which has less. EOS the invariable and immortal has a more real existence than the variable and mortal, and has a corresponding measure of knowledge and truth. EOS the soul, again, has more existence and truth and knowledge than the body, and is therefore more really satisfied and has a more natural pleasure. EOS their pleasures are mere shadows of pleasure, mixed with pain, coloured and intensified by contrast, and therefore intensely desired; and men go fighting about them, as stesichorus says that the greeks fought about the shadow of helen at troy, because they know not the truth. EOS the same may be said of the passionate element:--the desires of the ambitious soul, as well as of the covetous, have an inferior satisfaction. EOS and the more distant they are from philosophy and reason, the more distant they will be from law and order, and the more illusive will be their pleasures. EOS the tyrant is the third removed from the oligarch, and has therefore, not a shadow of his pleasure, but the shadow of a shadow only. EOS the oligarch, again, is thrice removed from the king, and thus we get the formula 3 x 3, which is the number of a surface, representing the shadow which is the tyrant's pleasure, and if you like to cube this 'number of the beast,' you will find that the measure of the difference amounts to 729; the king is 729 times more happy than the tyrant. EOS and this extraordinary number is nearly equal to the number of days and nights in a year (365 x 2 = 730); and is therefore concerned with human life. EOS this is the interval between a good and bad man in happiness only: what must be the difference between them in comeliness of life and virtue! EOS now that we know the nature of justice and injustice, let us make an image of the soul, which will personify his words. EOS first of all, fashion a multitudinous beast, having a ring of heads of all manner of animals, tame and wild, and able to produce and change them at pleasure. EOS suppose now another form of a lion, and another of a man; the second smaller than the first, the third than the second; join them together and cover them with a human skin, in which they are completely concealed. EOS when this has been done, let us tell the supporter of injustice that he is feeding up the beasts and starving the man. EOS the maintainer of justice, on the other hand, is trying to strengthen the man; he is nourishing the gentle principle within him, and making an alliance with the lion heart, in order that he may be able to keep down the many-headed hydra, and bring all into unity with each other and with themselves. EOS thus in every point of view, whether in relation to pleasure, honour, or advantage, the just man is right, and the unjust wrong. EOS and will he sell his own fairer and diviner part without any compunction to the most godless and foul? EOS would he not be worse than eriphyle, who sold her husband's life for a necklace? EOS and intemperance is the letting loose of the multiform monster, and pride and sullenness are the growth and increase of the lion and serpent element, while luxury and effeminacy are caused by a too great relaxation of spirit. EOS the real disgrace of handicraft arts is, that those who are engaged in them have to flatter, instead of mastering their desires; therefore we say that they should be placed under the control of the better principle in another because they have none in themselves; not, as thrasymachus imagined, to the injury of the subjects, but for their good. EOS and our intention in educating the young, is to give them self-control; the law desires to nurse up in them a higher principle, and when they have acquired this, they may go their ways. EOS or what shall he profit by escaping discovery, if the concealment of evil prevents the cure? EOS if he had been punished, the brute within him would have been silenced, and the gentler element liberated; and he would have united temperance, justice, and wisdom in his soul--a union better far than any combination of bodily gifts. EOS the man of understanding will honour knowledge above all; in the next place he will keep under his body, not only for the sake of health and strength, but in order to attain the most perfect harmony of body and soul. EOS in the acquisition of riches, too, he will aim at order and harmony; he will not desire to heap up wealth without measure, but he will fear that the increase of wealth will disturb the constitution of his own soul. EOS yes, but he will, in his own city; though probably not in his native country, unless by some divine accident. EOS 'you mean that he will be a citizen of the ideal city, which has no place upon earth.' EOS whether such a state is or ever will be matters not; he will act according to that pattern and no other...  the most noticeable points in the 9th book of the republic are:--(1) the account of pleasure; (2) the number of the interval which divides the king from the tyrant; (3) the pattern which is in heaven. EOS 1. plato's account of pleasure is remarkable for moderation, and in this respect contrasts with the later platonists and the views which are attributed to them by aristotle. EOS he dwells upon the relative and unreal character of sensual pleasures and the illusion which arises out of the contrast of pleasure and pain, pointing out the superiority of the pleasures of reason, which are at rest, over the fleeting pleasures of sense and emotion. EOS the pre-eminence of royal pleasure is shown by the fact that reason is able to form a judgment of the lower pleasures, while the two lower parts of the soul are incapable of judging the pleasures of reason. EOS thus, in his treatment of pleasure, as in many other subjects, the philosophy of plato is 'sawn up into quantities' by aristotle; the analysis which was originally made by him became in the next generation the foundation of further technical distinctions. EOS both in plato and aristotle we note the illusion under which the ancients fell of regarding the transience of pleasure as a proof of its unreality, and of confounding the permanence of the intellectual pleasures with the unchangeableness of the knowledge from which they are derived. EOS 2. the number of the interval which separates the king from the tyrant, and royal from tyrannical pleasures, is 729, the cube of 9. which plato characteristically designates as a number concerned with human life, because nearly equivalent to the number of days and nights in the year. EOS those who spoke of justice as a cube, of virtue as an art of measuring (prot. EOS ), saw no inappropriateness in conceiving the soul under the figure of a line, or the pleasure of the tyrant as separated from the pleasure of the king by the numerical interval of 729. and in modern times we sometimes use metaphorically what plato employed as a philosophical formula. EOS 'it is not easy to estimate the loss of the tyrant, except perhaps in this way,' says plato. EOS so we might say, that although the life of a good man is not to be compared to that of a bad man, yet you may measure the difference between them by valuing one minute of the one at an hour of the other ('one day in thy courts is better than a thousand'), or you might say that 'there is an infinite difference.' EOS but this is not so much as saying, in homely phrase, 'they are a thousand miles asunder.' EOS and accordingly plato finds the natural vehicle of his thoughts in a progression of numbers; this arithmetical formula he draws out with the utmost seriousness, and both here and in the number of generation seems to find an additional proof of the truth of his speculation in forming the number into a geometrical figure; just as persons in our own day are apt to fancy that a statement is verified when it has been only thrown into an abstract form. EOS there is some difficulty in explaining the steps by which the number 729 is obtained; the oligarch is removed in the third degree from the royal and aristocratical, and the tyrant in the third degree from the oligarchical; but we have to arrange the terms as the sides of a square and to count the oligarch twice over, thus reckoning them not as = 5 but as = 9. the square of 9 is passed lightly over as only a step towards the cube. EOS the vision which has received form and substance at his hands, is now discovered to be at a distance. EOS and yet this distant kingdom is also the rule of man's life. EOS here, or lo! EOS thus a note is struck which prepares for the revelation of a future life in the following book. EOS but the future life is present still; the ideal of politics is to be realized in the individual. EOS the division of the soul throws a new light on our exclusion of imitation. EOS i have loved homer ever since i was a boy, and even now he appears to me to be the great master of tragic poetry. EOS but much as i love the man, i love truth more, and therefore i must speak out: and first of all, will you explain what is imitation, for really i do not understand? EOS 'how likely then that i should understand!' EOS that might very well be, for the duller often sees better than the keener eye. EOS 'true, but in your presence i can hardly venture to say what i think.' EOS then suppose that we begin in our old fashion, with the doctrine of universals. EOS let us assume the existence of beds and tables. EOS and is there not a maker of the works of all workmen, who makes not only vessels but plants and animals, himself, the earth and heaven, and things in heaven and under the earth? EOS 'he must be a wizard indeed!' EOS but do you not see that there is a sense in which you could do the same? EOS you have only to take a mirror, and catch the reflection of the sun, and the earth, or anything else--there now you have made them. EOS 'yes, but only in appearance.' EOS 'not if philosophers may be believed.' EOS nor need we wonder that his bed has but an imperfect relation to the truth. EOS reflect:--here are three beds; one in nature, which is made by god; another, which is made by the carpenter; and the third, by the painter. EOS we may therefore conceive god to be the natural maker of the bed, and in a lower sense the carpenter is also the maker; but the painter is rather the imitator of what the other two make; he has to do with a creation which is thrice removed from reality. EOS suppose now that somebody came to us and told us, how he had met a man who knew all that everybody knows, and better than anybody:--should we not infer him to be a simpleton who, having no discernment of truth and falsehood, had met with a wizard or enchanter, whom he fancied to be all-wise? EOS and when we hear persons saying that homer and the tragedians know all the arts and all the virtues, must we not infer that they are under a similar delusion? EOS they do not see that the poets are imitators, and that their creations are only imitations. EOS 'very true.' EOS but if a person could create as well as imitate, he would rather leave some permanent work and not an imitation only; he would rather be the receiver than the giver of praise? EOS 'yes, for then he would have more honour and advantage.' EOS let us now interrogate homer and the poets. EOS or was any war ever carried on by your counsels? EOS would he not have had many devoted followers? EOS but they did not; and therefore we may infer that homer and all the poets are only imitators, who do but imitate the appearances of things. EOS for as a painter by a knowledge of figure and colour can paint a cobbler without any practice in cobbling, so the poet can delineate any art in the colours of language, and give harmony and rhythm to the cobbler and also to the general; and you know how mere narration, when deprived of the ornaments of metre, is like a face which has lost the beauty of youth and never had any other. EOS thus we have three arts: one of use, another of invention, a third of imitation; and the user furnishes the rule to the two others. EOS but which of them is true is determined by the art of calculation; and this is allied to the better faculty in the soul, as the arts of imitation are to the worse. EOS is there not rather a contradiction in him? EOS let me further ask, whether he is more likely to control sorrow when he is alone or when he is in company. EOS for when we stumble, we should not, like children, make an uproar; we should take the measures which reason prescribes, not raising a lament, but finding a cure. EOS thus the poet is like the painter in two ways: first he paints an inferior degree of truth, and secondly, he is concerned with an inferior part of the soul. EOS now, ought a man to feel pleasure in seeing another do what he hates and abominates in himself? EOS is he not giving way to a sentiment which in his own case he would control?--he is off his guard because the sorrow is another's; and he thinks that he may indulge his feelings without disgrace, and will be the gainer by the pleasure. EOS but the inevitable consequence is that he who begins by weeping at the sorrows of others, will end by weeping at his own. EOS poetry feeds and waters the passions and desires; she lets them rule instead of ruling them. EOS but we shall continue to prohibit all poetry which goes beyond hymns to the gods and praises of famous men. EOS not pleasure and pain, but law and reason shall rule in our state. EOS we will remind her that there is an ancient quarrel between poetry and philosophy, of which there are many traces in the writings of the poets, such as the saying of 'the she-dog, yelping at her mistress,' and 'the philosophers who are ready to circumvent zeus,' and 'the philosophers who are paupers.' EOS nevertheless we bear her no ill-will, and will gladly allow her to return upon condition that she makes a defence of herself in verse; and her supporters who are not poets may speak in prose. EOS 'i agree with you.' EOS not, perhaps, in this brief span of life: but should an immortal being care about anything short of eternity? EOS 'i do not understand what you mean?' EOS do you not know that the soul is immortal? EOS indeed i am. EOS the body, which is one thing, cannot be destroyed by food, which is another, unless the badness of the food is communicated to the body. EOS and as no bodily evil can infect the soul, neither can any bodily evil, whether disease or violence, or any other destroy the soul, unless it can be shown to render her unholy and unjust. EOS but no one will ever prove that the souls of men become more unjust when they die. EOS you are quite right. EOS they cannot diminish, because they cannot be destroyed; nor yet increase, for the increase of the immortal must come from something mortal, and so all would end in immortality. EOS if we would conceive her truly, and so behold justice and injustice in their own nature, she must be viewed by the light of reason pure as at birth, or as she is reflected in philosophy when holding converse with the divine and immortal and eternal. EOS in her present condition we see her only like the sea-god glaucus, bruised and maimed in the sea which is the world, and covered with shells and stones which are incrusted upon her from the entertainments of earth. EOS thus far, as the argument required, we have said nothing of the rewards and honours which the poets attribute to justice; we have contented ourselves with showing that justice in herself is best for the soul in herself, even if a man should put on a gyges' ring and have the helmet of hades too. EOS and now you shall repay me what you borrowed; and i will enumerate the rewards of justice in life and after death. EOS and since i have shown that justice has reality, you must grant me also that she has the palm of appearance. EOS in the first place, the just man is known to the gods, and he is therefore the friend of the gods, and he will receive at their hands every good, always excepting such evil as is the necessary consequence of former sins. EOS all things end in good to him, either in life or after death, even what appears to be evil; for the gods have a care of him who desires to be in their likeness. EOS and what shall we say of men? EOS come, then, and i will tell you the story of er, the son of armenius, a valiant man. EOS he was supposed to have died in battle, but ten days afterwards his body was found untouched by corruption and sent home for burial. EOS on the twelfth day he was placed on the funeral pyre and there he came to life again, and told what he had seen in the world below. EOS and there were judges sitting in the intermediate space, bidding the just ascend by the heavenly way on the right hand, having the seal of their judgment set upon them before, while the unjust, having the seal behind, were bidden to descend by the way on the left hand. EOS they seemed glad to meet and rest awhile in the meadow; here they discoursed with one another of what they had seen in the other world. EOS those who came from earth wept at the remembrance of their sorrows, but the spirits from above spoke of glorious sights and heavenly bliss. EOS he said that for every evil deed they were punished tenfold--now the journey was of a thousand years' duration, because the life of man was reckoned as a hundred years--and the rewards of virtue were in the same proportion. EOS of parricides and other murderers he had tortures still more terrible to narrate. EOS he was present when one of the spirits asked--where is ardiaeus the great? EOS another spirit answered, 'he comes not hither, and will never come. EOS and i myself,' he added, 'actually saw this terrible sight. EOS at the entrance of the chasm, as we were about to reascend, ardiaeus appeared, and some other sinners--most of whom had been tyrants, but not all--and just as they fancied that they were returning to life, the chasm gave a roar, and then wild, fiery-looking men who knew the meaning of the sound, seized him and several others, and bound them hand and foot and threw them down, and dragged them along at the side of the road, lacerating them and carding them like wool, and explaining to the passers-by, that they were going to be cast into hell.' EOS to these sufferings there were corresponding delights. EOS on the eighth day the souls of the pilgrims resumed their journey, and in four days came to a spot whence they looked down upon a line of light, in colour like a rainbow, only brighter and clearer. EOS the whorl was in form like a number of boxes fitting into one another with their edges turned upwards, making together a single whorl which was pierced by the spindle. EOS the outermost had the rim broadest, and the inner whorls were smaller and smaller, and had their rims narrower. EOS the spindle turned on the knees of necessity, and a siren stood hymning upon each circle, while lachesis, clotho, and atropos, the daughters of necessity, sat on thrones at equal intervals, singing of past, present, and future, responsive to the music of the sirens; clotho from time to time guiding the outer circle with a touch of her right hand; atropos with her left hand touching and guiding the inner circles; lachesis in turn putting forth her hand from time to time to guide both of them. EOS there were tyrannies ending in misery and exile, and lives of men and women famous for their different qualities; and also mixed lives, made up of wealth and poverty, sickness and health. EOS here, glaucon, is the great risk of human life, and therefore the whole of education should be directed to the acquisition of such a knowledge as will teach a man to refuse the evil and choose the good. EOS he should know all the combinations which occur in life--of beauty with poverty or with wealth,--of knowledge with external goods,--and at last choose with reference to the nature of the soul, regarding that only as the better life which makes men better, and leaving the rest. EOS and a man must take with him an iron sense of truth and right into the world below, that there too he may remain undazzled by wealth or the allurements of evil, and be determined to avoid the extremes and choose the mean. EOS for this, as the messenger reported the interpreter to have said, is the true happiness of man; and any one, as he proclaimed, may, if he choose with understanding, have a good lot, even though he come last. EOS 'let not the first be careless in his choice, nor the last despair.' EOS he spoke; and when he had spoken, he who had drawn the first lot chose a tyranny: he did not see that he was fated to devour his own children--and when he discovered his mistake, he wept and beat his breast, blaming chance and the gods and anybody rather than himself. EOS like many another, he made a bad choice, because he had no experience of life; whereas those who came from earth and had seen trouble were not in such a hurry to choose. EOS but if a man had followed philosophy while upon earth, and had been moderately fortunate in his lot, he might not only be happy here, but his pilgrimage both from and to this world would be smooth and heavenly. EOS nothing was more curious than the spectacle of the choice, at once sad and laughable and wonderful; most of the souls only seeking to avoid their own condition in a previous life. EOS he saw the soul of orpheus changing into a swan because he would not be born of a woman; there was thamyras becoming a nightingale; musical birds, like the swan, choosing to be men; the twentieth soul, which was that of ajax, preferring the life of a lion to that of a man, in remembrance of the injustice which was done to him in the judgment of the arms; and agamemnon, from a like enmity to human nature, passing into an eagle. EOS about the middle was the soul of atalanta choosing the honours of an athlete, and next to her epeus taking the nature of a workwoman; among the last was thersites, who was changing himself into a monkey. EOS thither, the last of all, came odysseus, and sought the lot of a private man, which lay neglected and despised, and when he found it he went away rejoicing, and said that if he had been first instead of last, his choice would have been the same. EOS men, too, were seen passing into animals, and wild and tame animals changing into one another. EOS when all the souls had chosen they went to lachesis, who sent with each of them their genius or attendant to fulfil their lot. EOS he first of all brought them under the hand of clotho, and drew them within the revolution of the spindle impelled by her hand; from her they were carried to atropos, who made the threads irreversible; whence, without turning round, they passed beneath the throne of necessity; and when they had all passed, they moved on in scorching heat to the plain of forgetfulness and rested at evening by the river unmindful, whose water could not be retained in any vessel; of this they had all to drink a certain quantity--some of them drank more than was required, and he who drank forgot all things. EOS when they had gone to rest, about the middle of the night there were thunderstorms and earthquakes, and suddenly they were all driven divers ways, shooting like stars to their birth. EOS concerning his return to the body, he only knew that awaking suddenly in the morning he found himself lying on the pyre. EOS the tenth book of the republic of plato falls into two divisions: first, resuming an old thread which has been interrupted, socrates assails the poets, who, now that the nature of the soul has been analyzed, are seen to be very far gone from the truth; and secondly, having shown the reality of the happiness of the just, he demands that appearance shall be restored to him, and then proceeds to prove the immortality of the soul. EOS the argument, as in the phaedo and gorgias, is supplemented by the vision of a future life. EOS he is the enemy of the poets because poetry was declining in his own lifetime, and a theatrocracy, as he says in the laws, had taken the place of an intellectual aristocracy. EOS euripides exhibited the last phase of the tragic drama, and in him plato saw the friend and apologist of tyrants, and the sophist of tragedy. EOS the old comedy was almost extinct; the new had not yet arisen. EOS dramatic and lyric poetry, like every other branch of greek literature, was falling under the power of rhetoric. EOS there was no 'second or third' to aeschylus and sophocles in the generation which followed them. EOS aristophanes, in one of his later comedies (frogs), speaks of 'thousands of tragedy-making prattlers,' whose attempts at poetry he compares to the chirping of swallows; 'their garrulity went far beyond euripides,'--'they appeared once upon the stage, and there was an end of them.' EOS there were other reasons for the antagonism of plato to poetry. EOS the profession of an actor was regarded by him as a degradation of human nature, for 'one man in his life' cannot 'play many parts;' the characters which the actor performs seem to destroy his own character, and to leave nothing which can be truly called himself. EOS the actor is the slave of his art, not the master of it. EOS taking this view plato is more decided in his expulsion of the dramatic than of the epic poets, though he must have known that the greek tragedians afforded noble lessons and examples of virtue and patriotism, to which nothing in homer can be compared. EOS in the tenth book plato introduces a new series of objections. EOS first, he says that the poet or painter is an imitator, and in the third degree removed from the truth. EOS his creations are not tested by rule and measure; they are only appearances. EOS even adopting the humble image of plato, from which his argument derives a colour, we should maintain that the artist may ennoble the bed which he paints by the folds of the drapery, or by the feeling of home which he introduces; and there have been modern painters who have imparted such an ideal interest to a blacksmith's or a carpenter's shop. EOS the eye or mind which feels as well as sees can give dignity and pathos to a ruined mill, or a straw-built shed (rembrandt), to the hull of a vessel 'going to its last home' (turner). EOS had plato been asked whether the zeus or athene of pheidias was the imitation of an imitation only, would he not have been compelled to admit that something more was to be found in them than in the form of any mortal; and that the rule of proportion to which they conformed was 'higher far than any geometry or arithmetic could express?' EOS (statesman.) EOS again, plato objects to the imitative arts that they express the emotional rather than the rational part of human nature. EOS yet we must acknowledge that we may sometimes cure disordered emotions by giving expression to them; and that they often gain strength when pent up within our own breast. EOS every one would acknowledge that there have been times when they were consoled and elevated by beautiful music or by the sublimity of architecture or by the peacefulness of nature. EOS plato has himself admitted, in the earlier part of the republic, that the arts might have the effect of harmonizing as well as of enervating the mind; but in the tenth book he regards them through a stoic or puritan medium. EOS and is not satisfied with the reply, that 'they have given innocent pleasure to mankind.' EOS he tells us that he rejoices in the banishment of the poets, since he has found by the analysis of the soul that they are concerned with the inferior faculties. EOS he means to say that the higher faculties have to do with universals, the lower with particulars of sense. EOS the poets are on a level with their own age, but not on a level with socrates and plato; and he was well aware that homer and hesiod could not be made a rule of life by any process of legitimate interpretation; his ironical use of them is in fact a denial of their authority; he saw, too, that the poets were not critics--as he says in the apology, 'any one was a better interpreter of their writings than they were themselves. EOS he himself ceased to be a poet when he became a disciple of socrates; though, as he tells us of solon, 'he might have been one of the greatest of them, if he had not been deterred by other pursuits' (tim.) EOS thus from many points of view there is an antagonism between plato and the poets, which was foreshadowed to him in the old quarrel between philosophy and poetry. EOS the poets, as he says in the protagoras, were the sophists of their day; and his dislike of the one class is reflected on the other. EOS he regards them both as the enemies of reasoning and abstraction, though in the case of euripides more with reference to his immoral sentiments about tyrants and the like. EOS whatever strangeness there may be in modern times in opposing philosophy to poetry, which to us seem to have so many elements in common, the strangeness will disappear if we conceive of poetry as allied to sense, and of philosophy as equivalent to thought and abstraction. EOS the things which are seen are opposed in scripture to the things which are unseen--they are equally opposed in plato to universals and ideas. EOS to him all particulars appear to be floating about in a world of sense; they have a taint of error or even of evil. EOS ; nor is the truth which is displayed in individual instances less certain than that which is conveyed through the medium of ideas. EOS but plato, who is deeply impressed with the real importance of universals as instruments of thought, attributes to them an essential truth which is imaginary and unreal; for universals may be often false and particulars true. EOS had he attained to any clear conception of the individual, which is the synthesis of the universal and the particular; or had he been able to distinguish between opinion and sensation, which the ambiguity of the words (greek) and the like, tended to confuse, he would not have denied truth to the particulars of sense. EOS there is another count put into the indictment against them by plato, that they are the friends of the tyrant, and bask in the sunshine of his patronage. EOS for no government of men depends solely upon force; without some corruption of literature and morals--some appeal to the imagination of the masses--some pretence to the favour of heaven--some element of good giving power to evil, tyranny, even for a short time, cannot be maintained. EOS the greek tyrants were not insensible to the importance of awakening in their cause a pseudo-hellenic feeling; they were proud of successes at the olympic games; they were not devoid of the love of literature and art. EOS but his prophetic eye extends beyond them to the false teachers of other ages who are the creatures of the government under which they live. EOS he compares the corruption of his contemporaries with the idea of a perfect society, and gathers up into one mass of evil the evils and errors of mankind; to him they are personified in the rhetoricians, sophists, poets, rulers who deceive and govern the world. EOS here the modern reader will be disposed to introduce a distinction which appears to have escaped him. EOS for the emotions are neither bad nor good in themselves, and are not most likely to be controlled by the attempt to eradicate them, but by the moderate indulgence of them. EOS but this only shows that art, like other outward things, may be turned to good and also to evil, and is not more closely connected with the higher than with the lower part of the soul. EOS all imitative art is subject to certain limitations, and therefore necessarily partakes of the nature of a compromise. EOS something of ideal truth is sacrificed for the sake of the representation, and something in the exactness of the representation is sacrificed to the ideal. EOS still, works of art have a permanent element; they idealize and detain the passing thought, and are the intermediates between sense and ideas. EOS but we can also imagine the existence of an age in which a severer conception of truth has either banished or transformed them. EOS at any rate we must admit that they hold a different place at different periods of the world's history. EOS in the infancy of mankind, poetry, with the exception of proverbs, is the whole of literature, and the only instrument of intellectual culture; in modern times she is the shadow or echo of her former self, and appears to have a precarious existence. EOS milton in his day doubted whether an epic poem was any longer possible. EOS at the same time we must remember, that what plato would have called the charms of poetry have been partly transferred to prose; he himself (statesman) admits rhetoric to be the handmaiden of politics, and proposes to find in the strain of law (laws) a substitute for the old poets. EOS among ourselves the creative power seems often to be growing weaker, and scientific fact to be more engrossing and overpowering to the mind than formerly. EOS the illusion of the feelings commonly called love, has hitherto been the inspiring influence of modern poetry and romance, and has exercised a humanizing if not a strengthening influence on the world. EOS art cannot claim to be on a level with philosophy or religion, and may often corrupt them. EOS it is possible to conceive a mental state in which all artistic representations are regarded as a false and imperfect expression, either of the religious ideal or of the philosophical ideal. EOS the fairest forms may be revolting in certain moods of mind, as is proved by the fact that the mahometans, and many sects of christians, have renounced the use of pictures and images. EOS the beginning of a great religion, whether christian or gentile, has not been 'wood or stone,' but a spirit moving in the hearts of men. EOS the disciples have met in a large upper room or in 'holes and caves of the earth'; in the second or third generation, they have had mosques, temples, churches, monasteries. EOS but poetry and art may also be the expression of the highest truth and the purest sentiment. EOS plato himself seems to waver between two opposite views--when, as in the third book, he insists that youth should be brought up amid wholesome imagery; and again in book x, when he banishes the poets from his republic. EOS for nature too is a form of art; and a breath of the fresh air or a single glance at the varying landscape would in an instant revive and reillumine the extinguished spark of poetry in the human breast. EOS in the lower stages of civilization imagination more than reason distinguishes man from the animals; and to banish art would be to banish thought, to banish language, to banish the expression of all truth. EOS feeling too and thought are not really opposed; for he who thinks must feel before he can execute. EOS and the highest thoughts, when they become familiarized to us, are always tending to pass into the form of feeling. EOS but he feels strongly the unreality of their writings; he is protesting against the degeneracy of poetry in his own day as we might protest against the want of serious purpose in modern fiction, against the unseemliness or extravagance of some of our poets or novelists, against the time-serving of preachers or public writers, against the regardlessness of truth which to the eye of the philosopher seems to characterize the greater part of the world. EOS for we too have reason to complain that our poets and novelists 'paint inferior truth' and 'are concerned with the inferior part of the soul'; that the readers of them become what they read and are injuriously affected by them. EOS and we look in vain for that healthy atmosphere of which plato speaks,--'the beauty which meets the sense like a breeze and imperceptibly draws the soul, even in childhood, into harmony with the beauty of reason.' EOS for there might be a poetry which would be the hymn of divine perfection, the harmony of goodness and truth among men: a strain which should renew the youth of the world, and bring back the ages in which the poet was man's only teacher and best friend,--which would find materials in the living present as well as in the romance of the past, and might subdue to the fairest forms of speech and verse the intractable materials of modern civilisation,--which might elicit the simple principles, or, as plato would have called them, the essential forms, of truth and justice out of the variety of opinion and the complexity of modern society,--which would preserve all the good of each generation and leave the bad unsung,--which should be based not on vain longings or faint imaginings, but on a clear insight into the nature of man. EOS then the tale of love might begin again in poetry or prose, two in one, united in the pursuit of knowledge, or the service of god and man; and feelings of love might still be the incentive to great thoughts and heroic deeds as in the days of dante or petrarch; and many types of manly and womanly beauty might appear among us, rising above the ordinary level of humanity, and many lives which were like poems (laws), be not only written, but lived by us. EOS a few such strains have been heard among men in the tragedies of aeschylus and sophocles, whom plato quotes, not, as homer is quoted by him, in irony, but with deep and serious approval,--in the poetry of milton and wordsworth, and in passages of other english poets,--first and above all in the hebrew prophets and psalmists. EOS shakespeare has taught us how great men should speak and act; he has drawn characters of a wonderful purity and depth; he has ennobled the human mind, but, like homer (rep.), he 'has left no way of life.' EOS the next greatest poet of modern times, goethe, is concerned with 'a lower degree of truth'; he paints the world as a stage on which 'all the men and women are merely players'; he cultivates life as an art, but he furnishes no ideals of truth and action. EOS the poet may rebel against any attempt to set limits to his fancy; and he may argue truly that moralizing in verse is not poetry. EOS but the philosopher will still be justified in asking, 'how may the heavenly gift of poesy be devoted to the good of mankind?' EOS returning to plato, we may observe that a similar mixture of truth and error appears in other parts of the argument. EOS he is aware of the absurdity of mankind framing their whole lives according to homer; just as in the phaedrus he intimates the absurdity of interpreting mythology upon rational principles; both these were the modern tendencies of his own age, which he deservedly ridicules. EOS the argument for immortality seems to rest on the absolute dualism of soul and body. EOS admitting the existence of the soul, we know of no force which is able to put an end to her. EOS vice is her own proper evil; and if she cannot be destroyed by that, she cannot be destroyed by any other. EOS in the republic, as elsewhere, he wavers between the original soul which has to be restored, and the character which is developed by training and education...  the vision of another world is ascribed to er, the son of armenius, who is said by clement of alexandria to have been zoroaster. EOS but no trace of acquaintance with zoroaster is found elsewhere in plato's writings, and there is no reason for giving him the name of er the pamphylian. EOS the local arrangement of the vision is less distinct than that of the phaedrus and phaedo. EOS astronomy is mingled with symbolism and mythology; the great sphere of heaven is represented under the symbol of a cylinder or box, containing the seven orbits of the planets and the fixed stars; this is suspended from an axis or spindle which turns on the knees of necessity; the revolutions of the seven orbits contained in the cylinder are guided by the fates, and their harmonious motion produces the music of the spheres. EOS through the innermost or eighth of these, which is the moon, is passed the spindle; but it is doubtful whether this is the continuation of the column of light, from which the pilgrims contemplate the heavens; the words of plato imply that they are connected, but not the same. EOS the column itself is clearly not of adamant. EOS the description is both a picture and an orrery, and therefore is necessarily inconsistent with itself. EOS this is compared to the rainbow in respect not of form but of colour, and not to the undergirders of a trireme, but to the straight rope running from prow to stern in which the undergirders meet. EOS no distinct mention is made in the republic of the circles of the same and other; although both in the timaeus and in the republic the motion of the fixed stars is supposed to coincide with the motion of the whole. EOS plato probably intended to represent the earth, from which er and his companions are viewing the heavens, as stationary in place; but whether or not herself revolving, unless this is implied in the revolution of the axis, is uncertain (timaeus). EOS the spectator may be supposed to look at the heavenly bodies, either from above or below. EOS the earth is a sort of earth and heaven in one, like the heaven of the phaedrus, on the back of which the spectator goes out to take a peep at the stars and is borne round in the revolution. EOS there is no distinction between the equator and the ecliptic. EOS but plato is no doubt led to imagine that the planets have an opposite motion to that of the fixed stars, in order to account for their appearances in the heavens. EOS in the description of the meadow, and the retribution of the good and evil after death, there are traces of homer. EOS the description of the axis as a spindle, and of the heavenly bodies as forming a whole, partly arises out of the attempt to connect the motions of the heavenly bodies with the mythological image of the web, or weaving of the fates. EOS the element of chance in human life is indicated by the order of the lots. EOS but chance, however adverse, may be overcome by the wisdom of man, if he knows how to choose aright; there is a worse enemy to man than chance; this enemy is himself. EOS and as plato does not like to make an assertion which is unproven, he more than confirms this statement a few sentences afterwards by the example of odysseus, who chose last. EOS but the virtue which is founded on habit is not sufficient to enable a man to choose; he must add to virtue knowledge, if he is to act rightly when placed in new circumstances. EOS the routine of good actions and good habits is an inferior sort of goodness; and, as coleridge says, 'common sense is intolerable which is not based on metaphysics,' so plato would have said, 'habit is worthless which is not based upon philosophy.' EOS 'virtue is free, and as a man honours or dishonours her he will have more or less of her.' EOS but within the walls of necessity there is an open space in which he is his own master, and can study for himself the effects which the variously compounded gifts of nature or fortune have upon the soul, and act accordingly. EOS all men cannot have the first choice in everything. EOS the verisimilitude which is given to the pilgrimage of a thousand years, by the intimation that ardiaeus had lived a thousand years before; the coincidence of er coming to life on the twelfth day after he was supposed to have been dead with the seven days which the pilgrims passed in the meadow, and the four days during which they journeyed to the column of light; the precision with which the soul is mentioned who chose the twentieth lot; the passing remarks that there was no definite character among the souls, and that the souls which had chosen ill blamed any one rather than themselves; or that some of the souls drank more than was necessary of the waters of forgetfulness, while er himself was hindered from drinking; the desire of odysseus to rest at last, unlike the conception of him in dante and tennyson; the feigned ignorance of how er returned to the body, when the other souls went shooting like stars to their birth,--add greatly to the probability of the narrative. EOS they are such touches of nature as the art of defoe might have introduced when he wished to win credibility for marvels and apparitions. EOS 